Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Aegon Nederland N.V.
Aegonplein 50
2591 TV The Hague

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Contents
Annual report 2017

3

Report of the Board of Directors

4

Report of the Supervisory Board

39

Consolidated financial statements 2017 of Aegon Nederland N.V.

44

Consolidated statement of financial position

45

Consolidated income statement

46

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income

47

Consolidated statement of changes in equity

48

Consolidated cash flow statement

50

Notes to the consolidated financial statements

53

Financial statements 2017 of Aegon Nederland N.V.

209

Statement of financial position

210

Income statement

211

Notes to the financial statements

212

Other information
Independent auditor’s report

226
227

Page 2 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Annual report 2017

Page 3 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Report of the Board of Directors
1.

General information

Aegon Nederland N.V., incorporated and domiciled in the Netherlands, is a public limited liability
company organized under Dutch law and recorded in the Trade Register of the Chamber of
Commerce in The Hague under its registered address at Aegonplein 50, 2591 TV, The Hague with
registration number KvK 27111251. Aegon Nederland N.V. (‘Aegon Nederland’) is wholly owned by
Aegon Europe Holding B.V. (‘Aegon Europe Holding’) in The Hague. Aegon N.V. in The Hague is the
ultimate parent of the group.

Purpose and mission statement
Aegon Nederland has customers at the core of its strategy. At the end of 2016, Aegon Nederland
introduced the Future Fit Strategy. The goal of the Future Fit Strategy is to become the “customerdriven company of the future”. The refocused strategy centers around Aegon Nederland’s mission
to “enable people to make conscious decisions about their financial future” (“wij stellen mensen in
staat zelf, bewust keuzes te maken voor hun financiële toekomst”). This means doing the right
things in the best possible way in the interests of our customers. In 2017, Aegon Nederland started
the implementation of the Future Fit Strategy, thereby transforming Aegon Nederland’s company
structure into four divisions, with an increased focus on customer segments: Aegon Zakelijk, Aegon
Particulier, Knab and Bank & Beleggen. Within these divisions, Aegon Nederland aims to offer
comprehensive value propositions that will suit our customers’ needs at every stage of their lives.
Our strategy is aligned across four set objectives, to create loyal customers, achieve operational
excellence, realize an optimized portfolio and have empowered employees.

Main activities, products, services and geographic areas
Aegon Nederland is incorporated and domiciled in the Netherlands, and its subsidiaries offer life
insurance, pensions, savings and investment products, mortgages, accident and health insurance,
general insurance, banking, asset management, pension administration and intermediary
activities. Aegon Nederland operates from The Hague, Leeuwarden, Groningen and Hoofddorp.
Sales and distribution
Aegon Netherland's Life & Savings products are sold through Aegon's intermediary and direct
channels. Aegon Nederland offers its non-life insurance products primarily through direct and
intermediary channels. In addition, sales and account management provides products for larger
corporations in the Netherlands. Most of Aegon Nederland's pensions are sold through sales and
account management and Aegon's intermediary channel. Customers include individuals, company
and industry pension funds, and small, medium and large corporations. Aegon Nederland is one of
the country's leading pension provider.
For the majority of company and industry customers, Aegon Nederland provides a full range of
pension products and services. In addition, TKP Pensioen specializes in pension administration for
company and industry pension funds, and also provides defined contribution plans to corporate
and institutional clients. Aegon offers defined contribution plans for small and medium-sized
companies, and CAPPITAL offers the same plans for large companies. In 2016, TKP and Aegon
Nederland launched STAP general pension fund. Aegon was the first company to receive approval
from the Dutch Central Bank to launch a general pension fund.

Page 4 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

STAP is a pension pooling vehicle that enables separate financial administration for multiple pension
plans from multiple employers. This vehicle enables smaller pension schemes to benefit from
economies of scale and to comply with complex pension regulations, meaning that a greater
percentage of the employees’ pension premium is invested and that employers and participants
can count on excellent service. The fund is administered by TKP, an Aegon subsidiary responsible
for administering the pensions of over 3 million customers in the Netherlands. STAP also allows
individual schemes to benefit from the investment expertise normally only available to larger
pension funds. The fiduciary investments for STAP will be carried out by TKP Investments, a
subsidiary of Aegon Asset Management, which is a solution for pension funds that no longer wish
to continue independently due to the current high legal requirements and costs. STAP is also a
potential solution for companies looking to set up a pension plan in a pension fund environment.

Legal company and group structure
Aegon Nederland is a public limited liability company organized under Dutch law, which is a whollyowned subsidiary of Aegon Europe Holding, The Hague. Aegon N.V., which is a listed entity, is the
ultimate parent company of Aegon Nederland. Within the group of companies of Aegon Nederland,
there are four wholly-owned and licensed insurance companies and one licensed mortgage
company: Aegon Levensverzekering N.V. (‘Aegon Levensverzekering’), Aegon Schadeverzekering
N.V. (‘Aegon Schadeverzekering’), Optas Pensioenen N.V. (‘Optas Pensioenen’), Aegon Spaarkas
N.V. (‘Aegon Spaarkas’) and Aegon Hypotheken B.V. (‘Aegon Hypotheken’). Other licensed
companies with 100% ownership relations are Aegon Bank N.V. (‘Aegon Bank’) (including the
banking activities of the Knab label), Aegon PPI B.V. (‘Aegon PPI’) and Cappital PPI B.V. (‘Cappital
PPI’). The intermediary and advice business encompasses the wholly-owned and licensed Aegon
Bemiddeling B.V. (‘Aegon Bemiddeling’) and Aegon Advies B.V. (‘Aegon advice’) companies. Finally,
in the pension administration business, TKP Pensioen B.V. (‘TKP Pensioen’) is part of the Aegon
Nederland group of companies. On October 31, 2017 Aegon Nederland sold its shares in the
independent financial advisory group Unirobe Meeùs Groep (UMG).
On January 1, 2017 as a consequence of the legal merger between Aegon Nederland (as acquiring
company) and Aegon Bedrijfsfinanciering B.V., Aegon Infrastructure Services Nederland and Bagon
B.V. (as disappearing companies), the disappearing companies ceased to exist.
On January 1, 2017 as a consequence of the legal merger between eyeOpen Holding (as acquiring
company) and eyeOpen Finance B.V. (as disappearing company) the disappearing company ceased
to exist.
On January 2, 2017, all the shares in the capital of eyeOpen N.V. were sold and
transferred by eyeOpen Holding N.V. to Aegon Innovation Investments B.V..
On January 3, 2017 as a consequence of the legal merger between eyeOpen (as acquiring
company) and eyeOpen Holding (as disappearing company) the disappearing company ceased to
exist.
On January 3, 2017, the Articles of Association of eyeOpen N.V. were amended, whereby the name
changed into Knab Advies & Bemiddeling N.V..
On June 27, 2017 as a consequence of the merger between Aegon Vastgoed Holding B.V. (as
acquiring company) and Aegon Woningen B.V., Aegon Living & Care Fund Participation B.V. and
Aegon Dynamic Fund the disappearing ceased to exist on June 28, 2017.
On June 27, 2017 as a consequence of the merger between Aegon Vastgoed Holding B.V. (as
acquiring company) and Aegon Core Fund Participations B.V. (as disappearing company) the
disappearing company ceased to exist on June 28, 2017.

Page 5 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

On June 29, 2017 as a consequence of the merger between Aegon Levensverzekering (as acquiring
company) and Aegon Leven Beleggingen B.V. and Aegon Vastgoed Holding B.V. (as disappearing
companies) the disappearing companies ceased to exist on June 30, 2017.
On October 31, 2017 Aegon Nederland N.V. sold all the shares in Unirobe Meeùs Groep B.V..

Internal organizational structure
Aegon Nederland operates in an ever changing environment due to customer and stakeholder
demands, as well as market developments. By providing clear information (“Klantbelang Centraal”
or Customer Centricity) and easily comprehensible products and services, Aegon Nederland
empowers people to make better financial decisions. Over the last few years, Aegon Nederland’s
strategy has been enhanced and refined. Changes to the strategy have been made to reflect
developments inside as well as outside of the company. We have consistently proven ourselves to
be adaptable to environmental changes by transforming our business, further strengthening our
capital base and reducing costs. We are well prepared to meet the rapidly changing demands of
(aging) populations in an increasingly affluent world. During the course of 2016, Aegon Nederland’s
Board of Directors deemed it necessary to accelerate the execution of the strategy.
In order to achieve this acceleration, changes to our organization and governance structure were
required; further transforming the organization from being product-driven towards being customerdriven. By doing so, the organizational structure is now more aligned to our business strategy and
consequently, a more efficient and effective execution of our strategy can be expected. The
organization is now divided in four customer segments Retail, Wholesale, Knab and Aegon Bank en
Beleggen.
The following entities are organized within the Retail segment: Aegon Schadeverzekering, Aegon
Levensverzekering (individual life), Aegon Spaarkas, Aegon Advies, Aegon Bemiddeling and Aegon
Hypotheken.
The entities Optas Pensioenen, Aegon Schadeverzekering (income) and Aegon Levensverzekering
(pensions) are organized within the Wholesale segment.

Employees
The average number of employees is 4,113, including 161 agents (2016: 4,500, including 264
agents). The expected developments in the total employees depends on the company’s strategic
choices made. On October 31, 2017 Aegon Nederland sold its shares in UMG. This resulted in a
decrease of employees and agents. On a short-term horizon, the number of employees is expected
to remain stable. Meantime, Aegon Nederland is actively looking into options to further reduce
costs.

Page 6 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Key elements of policy
During 2017, the Board of Directors' meetings have raised several important subjects and
developments for discussion, such as:















Further improvement of the control environment and culture (“In Control”)
Follow-up of the independent external auditor management letter and board report
Financial results (Solvency II & IFRS)
o Capitalization considerations
o ALM: strategic asset allocation
Own Risk Solvency Assessment (ORSA)
SOx developments
Redesign of the organizational structure for the execution of the Aegon NL Future Fit strategy
HR related subjects, e.g. a health check for the Aegon NL organizations as well as a Global
Employee Survey
Budget and Mid-term planning (BMTP)
Determination and monitoring of the project portfolio budget
Monitoring the customer Net Promoter Score (NPS)
Optimizing synergy between the different participants in the pension landscape within Aegon
NL.
Proposition innovation; service providing, fee business, growth of Knab, set up of an
independent APF (‘Algemeen Pensioen Fonds’)
Macroeconomics and market developments

Composition of the Board of Directors and gender diversity
As of January 1, 2017 Mr. M.B.A. Keim resigned from the Board as chair and was appointed in an
international position within Aegon Group. On 1 January 2017, Mr. M.J.P. Edixhoven was appointed
in the position of the chair within the Board of Directors. On January 1, 2017 also Mr. W. Horstmann
was appointed as a member of the Board of Directors in the function of Chief Risk Officer. As of
May 1, 2017 Mrs. I.M.A. de Graaf-de Swart succeeded Mr. R.M. van der Tol as member of the
Board of Directors and chairman of the Business Line Retail and Mr. Van der Tol resigned.
As a result, as of May 1, 2017, the Board consists of Mr. M.J. Edixhoven (chair), Mr. R. Zomer, Mrs.
I.M.A. de Graaf-de Swart, Mr. W.A. Hekstra and Mr. W. Horstmann.
Enhancing gender diversity in the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board is an important
objective for Aegon Nederland. Selection and appointment is based on expertise, skills and relevant
experience. The Supervisory Board also takes gender diversity into consideration in light of its goal
to have a balanced composition in the Board of Directors. The Supervisory Board is aware that the
current composition does not meet the 'balanced composition' requirement under Dutch law (at
least 30% of the seats should be filled by women and at least 30% by men). When identifying
candidates for open positions, the Board actively searches for suitable female candidates with the
help of external recruitment firms. In 2017 an important step has been taken with the appointment
of Mrs. I.M.A. de Graaf-de Swart as one of the five members of Board of Directors.

Remuneration policy
Aegon Nederland pursues a careful, sound and sustainable remuneration policy. As Aegon
Nederland has adopted the Regulation on Sound Remuneration Policies (Regeling beheerst
beloningsbeleid as issued by DNB), the Aegon Nederland remuneration policy is in line with the
requirements stipulated in the regulation.

Page 7 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Aegon Nederland’s remuneration policy applies to the Board of Directors, management teams,
senior management and other employees of Aegon Nederland and complies with the applicable
national and international regulations. The policy is in accordance with the Aegon Group Global
Remuneration Framework (AGGRF) drawn up by Aegon N.V. and has due regard for developments
in society.
The maximum variable remuneration for the statutory board members of Aegon Nederland N.V.
and its subsidiaries that qualify as a bank or insurer is 20% of the fixed income and in 2017 was
in total at target at 13.3% of the fixed income. In line with the Law on Remuneration Policies for
Financial Institutions (Wet beloningsbeleid financiële ondernemingen, or ‘Wbfo’), that has been in
effect since February, 2015, the total variable remuneration of senior management (including
members of the statutory board) does not exceed 20% of fixed income for the whole of Aegon
Nederland. The total amount of variable compensation paid out in 2017 was EUR 2.5 million. In
2017, there were no individuals for which the total annual compensation paid out to was equal to
or higher than EUR 1 million.
Regarding the form and timing of payments, the regulation requires a portion of the variable
remuneration paid to Identified Staff (e.g. members of the Management Team and certain senior
managers) to be deferred and partially paid in shares.
Variable remuneration is based on performance relating to present targets on the following three
levels: (i) Aegon N.V., (ii) Aegon Nederland and (iii) personal. The targets are a mix of financial
and non-financial performance criteria which are as objective as possible. The financial criteria
were adjusted for estimated risks and cost of capital upon assessment of the actual performance.
Under the governance provisions of Aegon Nederland’s remuneration policy, the Supervisory Board
is authorized, following the results of an ex-post assessment, to suspend or cancel all or a part of
the variable remuneration granted conditionally to Identified Staff (‘malus clause’). This malus
clause on variable remuneration granted conditionally to Identified Staff was not applied in 2017.
The governance provisions in Aegon Nederland’s remuneration policy state that the Supervisory
Board is authorized to recover variable remuneration previously paid to members of the
management team and senior management, if it was granted on the basis of inaccurate financial
or other information (‘claw back’ clause). In 2017, there was no claw back of variable remuneration.
Governance
In accordance with Aegon Nederland’s remuneration policy, the Supervisory Board has the
following duties and responsibilities: (i) approval of the general principles of the remuneration
policy, (ii) regular assessment of the general principles of the remuneration policy, (iii)
responsibility for the remuneration policy of the Board of Directors, (iv) review of the remuneration
of Identified Staff, (v) instructing the Board of Directors to implement the remuneration policy and
(vi) instructing the Remuneration Steering Group and/or Internal Audit to assess the application of
the policy and the procedures covered.

Page 8 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

The remuneration policy and its implementation was discussed in meetings held by the Supervisory
Board on several occasions during 2017. The Supervisory Board also discussed the level of variable
remuneration. As of 2016, the so-called bonus pool has been established and applied for the
performance year 2017. The Supervisory Board approved the 2017 variable remuneration targets
for Identified Staff within the framework set out in the AGGRF. It also approved payment of the
variable remuneration to Identified Staff relating to prior years that vested in 2017, with due regard
to the assessments required under the AGGRF. This remuneration was within Aegon Nederland’s
remuneration policy. No retention payments were made. There were no welcome and exit
arrangements granted in 2017 outside of the policy.
The total income of members of the Management Team is regularly assessed against the
compensation package for similar positions in other financial companies in the Netherlands. When
setting the remuneration policy for the Board of Directors, the aim is for total compensation levels
to be slightly below the median of comparable positions in the market. The total income of the
Board of Directors is in line with the remuneration policy.
Application of policy
In 2017, there were no dismissals in the Management Team. Variable remuneration for the
Management Team and other Identified Staff were paid 50% in cash and 50% in shares of Aegon
N.V. In 2017, in accordance with Aegon Nederland’s Remuneration policy, 40% of the 2016 variable
remuneration was paid directly to members of the Board of Directors of Aegon Nederland and the
remaining 60% was conditional. The 60% will be paid in three equal parts over a period of three
years, unless an ex-post risk assessment should indicate reasons for lowering the amounts or not
pay at all.
With the exception of shares withheld to cover payment of any applicable taxes, social security
premiums and/or other possible deductions by the government (for which the company holds a
withholding obligation in connection with the vesting of the shares), an additional holding period
of three years applies to shares that have vested for the CEO and two years for the other members
of the Board of Directors of Aegon Nederland.

Regulation and supervision
Regulation of the financial sector in the Netherlands is included in the Financial Supervision Act
(Wet op het financieel toezicht or Wft). The aim of the Wft is to embed the cross-sectorial functional
approach within the Dutch supervisory system. This approach replaced the prior sectorial approach
to financial supervision, which was embedded in the previous legislation. The supervision of
financial institutions pursuant to the Wft rests with the Dutch Central Bank (‘DNB’) and the
Authority for the Financial Markets (‘AFM’).
DNB is responsible for prudential supervision, while the AFM supervises the conduct of business of
financial institutions, and the conduct of business on financial markets. The aim of DNB's prudential
supervision is to ensure the solidity of financial institutions and contribute to the stability of the
financial sector. With regard to banks, DNB undertakes its supervisory role, in particular with
respect to prudential supervision, together with the European Central Bank (‘ECB’).
The AFM's conduct of business supervision focuses on ensuring orderly and transparent financial
market processes, integrity in relations between market parties and due care in the provision of
services to customers.

Page 9 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Business developments
Aegon Levensverzekering and Optas Pensioenen
Business Line Wholesale (Zakelijk) uses two risk carriers with a licence (Wft Leven-vergunning) for
its group pension. These are Aegon Levensverzekering N.V. and Optas Pensioenen N.V. With a few
exceptions, the business developments and strategy of Aegon Levensverzekering N.V. is the same
as the strategy of Optas Pensioenen N.V. are in line when it comes to group pension and everything
else resulting from that.
Aegon Levensverzekering N.V. will not accept new group DC-plans. New DC plans are placed in the
two PPI’s of Aegon, which are part of the business line wholesale (Zakelijk). Despite the decreasing
popularity, Aegon Levensverzekering N.V. is still prepared for new insured DB schemes. In addition,
indexations of pensions, and the increase in salaries and the number of employees, lead to
substantial organic growth in this portfolio. Nevertheless, more and more employers with a DBplan opt for a different pension provider within Aegon on termination of their group pension contract
with Aegon Levensverzekering N.V., for example at one of the PPIs. In 2017 Aegon
Levensverzekering started transferring the administration of insured DC policies to Aegon's
subsidiary TKP in Groningen. This transition takes place in phases and will be completed in 2019.
Together with the administrations of Aegon PPI and Cappital PPI, all DC schemes of Aegon
Netherlands are then administered on the same platform at TKP.
Optas will not, or only exceptionally, accept new group pension business. Optas Pensioenen NV has
in fact become a service book. Therefore the paragraphs on business developments and strategy
are alike. The portfolio shrinks because employers increasingly opt for a different pension provider
within Aegon on termination of their group pension contract with Optas, for example at one of the
PPIs, or go outside of Aegon.
In the coalition agreement (regeerakkoord) of the new cabinet much attention is paid to a new
pension system. The most important points here are:

the abolition of the average pay system

Introduction of a flat premium with decreasing pension accumulation

Personal pension assets and more freedom of choice

The possibility that self-employed people can join voluntarily.
The aim is to have agreement with the social partners in early 2018 on the further details.
Optas Pensioenen and Aegon Levensverzekering are still doing well in the market of immediate
annuities. In a very competitive market, they aim for quality over price and have continued their
pricing discipline, thus achieving a positive gross Value of New Business (VNB).
In September 2016 a new law for variable annuities entered into force. This law introduces for a
participant in a defined contribution scheme an additional option (a variable annuity) at the start
of the decumulation phase. When you choose for a variable annuity the amount of your pension
depends on:

How your investments will perform;

The increase or decrease in interest rates;

How much longevity has risen (or decreased).
In November 2016 Aegon was the first pension insurance company that this product (Uitkerend
Beleggingspensioen) had available for its customers. In 2017, 20% of participants that bought an
annuity with their pension capital out of a DC plan, chose for a variable annuity.
Due to the same law for variable annuities, participants in DC plans must already be offered the
choice during the accrual phase whether they want to choose for a fixed or variable annuity from
the retirement date so that, if necessary the life cycles can be adjusted accordingly.

Page 10 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Due to the low market interest rate and the low coverage ratio of pension funds, there were no
substantial opportunities for value transfers of pension rights (‘buy-out’ deals) in 2017. Another
trend that Optas Pensioenen and Aegon Levensverzekering must anticipate, is the differentiation
in pricing for mortality and disability risks based on risk profiles.
Aegon Levensverzekering
Life (individual)
The year 2017 showed a continued decline in the market for endowment products and a further
decrease in our in-force Whole-Life portfolio. Hardly any new business was generated in this market
segment. The trend towards bank-savings products continued unaltered. The active markets for
more traditional products such as Term-Life insurances, have shown to be stable over recent years.
Within the Term-Life market, Aegon Levensverzekering achieved significant growth in 2017, both
in the top and bottom segments. In addition we expect the trend of retreating government to offer
additional opportunities for our life protection proposition. Working closely with Aegon Nederland’s
banking business, Aegon Levensverzekering offers customers integrated solutions wherever
possible. The decreasing portfolio requires stringent control of costs which should diminish or at
least be kept at the same level. In 2017 the decrease in costs was in line with the decrease in the
in-force portfolio.
Aegon Levensverzekering manages their existing life portfolio as efficiently as possible and is
optimizing their portfolio from both the customer’s and Aegon’s perspective. The MijnAegon online
portal provides customers with a complete overview of and insight into their Aegon products.
Through MijnAegon, customers can take action as they deem appropriate. In addition to this, Aegon
Levensverzekering is actively trying to mobilize individual customers and encourage them to assess
the performance of their product in relation to their (original) objectives. Our aim is to enable our
customers to take informed decisions on whether or not to continue with their product, make
changes to the policy or surrender their contract. This process is called ‘activating customers’. In
2017, almost 200,000 existing clients were actively approached (activated and informed) to make
a decision about their product. Finally, with the online financial check, Aegon Levensverzekering is
also helping customers to evaluate whether their Aegon products still meet their needs and and
personal situation.
Aegon Spaarkas
This portfolio of this entity, which sold a specific kind of unit-linked products, has been closed for
a few years already. Hence, no new products are introduced by Aegon Spaarkas. Similar to the Life
portfolio this portfolio is steadily decreasing in size. Aegon Spaarkas manages this portfolio as
efficiently as possible and optimizes it from the customers’ and several Aegon’s perspectives.
Important for this objective is the financial check, which helps customers understand their financial
health. This financial check has been executed over the last few years in line with AFM
requirements. As per 2018 all customers have been “activated” and a new Aegon approach has
been developed. See also the Koersplan and unit-linked products sections in this report.
Aegon Schadeverzekering
Consumer P&C (Property & Casualty)
In 2017, the trends (changing consumer behavior, development of online direct, focus on risk and
control) of recent years in the non-life insurance market further developed. The profitability of the
non-life consumer insurance market is still under pressure from high competition. Still we saw a
clear improvement of the results during 2017. We have taken the step from structurally lossmaking to an in-control insurer with a healthy loss ratio. Based on in-depth insight, we have taken
strong and sometimes difficult measures to improve the results of our portfolio. We rationalized
our portfolio, phased out legacy systems, developed and refined our pricing and products,
reorganized and sharped our distribution strategy.
Page 11 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

We have achieved a substantial return improvement and have improved our starting position
considerably. The focus for the coming years is on achieving growth / scale (decrease costs per
policy and more data) and the use of smart technology ("advanced analytics"). Both are conditional
for a sustainable and competitive business model. Furthermore we remain our strong focus of
being “in control".
Income (Accident & Health) market
Aegon Schadeverzekering continued to develop its model for the Income market called 'de Gezonde
Aanpak’ (‘the Healthy Approach'). This to further improve our support to employers (SME’s) and
entrepreneurs in dealing with absenteeism and disability in the best possible way and to reduce
the number and volume of claims. In the Income market, Aegon Schadeverzekering invested in
the online presence of individual AOV (disability-insurance).
Due to measures introduced by the government, cancellations of WGA/ERD insurances increased
in the market segment of small- and medium-sized enterprises. Our WGA/ERD product was
redesigned to changes in regulations on January 1, 2018. By January 1, 2018, when employers
also become responsible for the disability risk for workers on temporary contracts, our customers
are making a choice between the UWV and the private market for the coming three years. This
resulted in an overall higher production, especially in the market segment of large enterprises.
Finally, cost efficiency and the optimization of the chain from customer to provider are important
drivers in the non-life market and will become even more important in the years to come.
Aegon Hypotheken B.V.
In 2017, the mortgage production in the Netherlands increased 25% to over EUR 100 billion (2016:
EUR 85 billion), reaching to pre-crisis levels. The low mortgage rates and increased consumer
confidence are important factors explaining the strong recovery. Lower supply, higher house prices
and stricter lending conditions may constraint further growth of the mortgage market.
In 2017 the largest growth was realized from refinancing (37%) and by home owners moving to a
new property (25%). The group of starters in the market showed a relative weak growth of 6%
indicating that higher house prices and shortage of supply of suitable houses hinder potential
entrants. The total number of mortgages sold also increased significantly, by 15% to 315,000. This
growth is lower than the growth in volume due to an increase in the average mortgage amount to
EUR 286.000 (2016: EUR 264,000).
In 2017 house prices have risen at an annual rate of 8.2%. In the development of housing prices
there are clear differences between different housing types and regions with popular urban areas
showing stronger increases than rural areas. However, the increase in house prices is more widespread over the country. In certain, urban areas there is shortage in cheaper and middle class
residences.
No significant changes in the top 10 lenders in the Dutch mortgage market. The top 4 remains
Rabobank, ABN Amro, ING and Aegon; the Aegon market share increased compared to 2016 with
1.3% to 8.5%.
Aegon Bank
The year 2017 has proven to be successful for Aegon Bank N.V. The strategy continues to focus on
serving our customers optimally and making Aegon Bank more operationally and financially robust.
Aegon Bank continued to further implement improvements to its service towards customers. The
market for accumulation and retirement bank-savings products is competitive. Aegon Bank is an
important provider in this market without being a price leader.

Page 12 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

In the balance of fair rates and excellent service, the inflow of savings, related to personal income
tax ‘box 1’ was above target. As to customers with expiring capital, the intermediary channel as
well as the online distribution channel (execution only online and through ‘Mijn Aegon’), made a
significant contribution to this inflow. In the current economic climate clients still seem to prefer
savings rather than investments. Generating inflow in investments therefore proves to be
challenging in spite of the fact that Aegon Bank has launched a new proposition with an investment
component. Even though the amount of clients with investment products has increased over the
year, the amount of assets under management stays behind target. Aegon Bank focuses on
continuous improvements throughout the organization. Customer feedback is the main source for
our improvements.
Aegon Bank N.V. achieved promising commercial and financial results. Performance indicators such
as Operational Results, Return on Equity and Cost to Income Ratio have developed positively over
the years. The asset class consumer loans made a significant contribution to the financial results.
During 2017 Aegon Bank issued its third and fourth covered bond, becoming a committed issuer
in the market. Furthermore Aegon Bank performed one large strategic ALM mortgage transaction.
Objective was to buy shorter duration mortgages and sell longer duration NHG mortgages. The
realized result on mortgages positively impacted the result for the year. On the other hand the
amortization over the market premium of the mortgages bought in the ALM transaction resulted in
an additional interest charge for the coming years.
Aegon Bank further implemented the Quality Control Team (QCT) which is now fully operational.
QCT supports senior management to strengthen the overall internal risk governance and control
within Aegon Bank N.V.
Following a rapidly expanding workload in key areas of the team (e.g. SREP, Marketplace Lending
platforms, In Control, Modelling), Aegon Bank has decided to restructure the Capital Management
team in order to adequately staff per focus area for the coming years. As per November 2017, the
Capital Management department has been restructured, and has been split into two: Capital
Management and Modelling and ALM and Liquidity & Pricing,
For Aegon Bank N.V. (which comprises of the two labels Aegon Bank and Knab) growth of ‘fee
business’ is viewed as a relevant component of profitable growth. Fee business can be generated
through offering services or investment products for which clients pay a fee to Aegon Bank. In spite
of the fact that the component of fee business at Aegon Bank as compared to spread business is
increasing, this is one of the biggest challenges Aegon Bank is faced with. Aegon Bank and Knab
expect to increase the amount of fee business by launching Aegon Beheerd Beleggen and Knab
Beleggen. In 2017 a conversion was made of existing investments clients in various products into
these new propositions.
In 2017 Aegon Bank N.V. reported Basel III ratios to the Dutch Central Bank (De Nederlandsche
Bank N.V. - DNB), namely the CET1-ratio, the leverage ratio, the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR)
and the Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR). Basel III is being introduced in stages between 2015 and
2019. Minimum requirements will then apply to each ratio. The reported ratios show that Aegon
Bank N.V. already complies with the proposed legislation and meets these targets for solvency,
leverage ratio, LCR and NSFR when the legislation becomes effective. Aligned with Aegon Bank
N.V.’s strategy, the liquidity ratio as well as the solvency ratio were maintained at prudent levels
and the solvency ratio remained above the target level throughout the year. Our stress tests show
that we continue to have a stable and solvent financial position with substantial buffers to absorb
any extreme but still plausible shocks in the financial markets.

Page 13 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Knab
During 2017 many customers decided to join Knab even though the pricing element in our
proposition was not always competitive. Knab was able to continue to deliver its customers good
quality: the banking services operated well and customer satisfaction remained (very) high. The
NPS score Knab stays at a high level (average 2017 NPS private customers +21, NPS small business
+39). The amount of clients increased from 130,000 to 164,000 clients during the course of
2017. In Q3 we had the national release of our Knab Insurance proposition. In 2017 we had
roughly 25,000 downloads and 4,800 advices. Also, we further integrated the Knab Mortgages
(former Eye Open) within the knab organization (responsible for 3,800 advices). At the
Crowdfunding platform in cooperation with Collin our customers invested a total of approx. EUR 7
million in various loans.
Improvements have been achieved when it comes to communications with clients. Knab
implemented a messaging tool within the knab apps and web environment. Next to that, Knab
introduced online payment verification (without using the cardreader). To increase speed and
quality of delivery and to increase in control levels Knab started an Agile Transition.
Aegon PPI
Aegon PPI continued its growth in 2017, in terms of assets under management, customers
(employers) and participants. Based on a transparent and accessible Defined Contribution scheme,
its ‘subscription proposition’ (‘Pensioenabonnement’) product responds to employers’ needs
regarding their responsibility towards employees. Many new customers, large and small, and
intermediaries have discovered this modern pension proposition. The Aegon Pensioenabonnement
offers simplicity and cost effectiveness. The product is designed to quickly respond to legislative
changes, such as the new legislation regarding the standard retirement age and fiscal pension
framework prescribed by the government which became applicable in 2018.
With input from our customers, participants and advisors we continuously improve the
Pensioenabonnement. In 2018 further improvements to the portals for the employer, participant
and advisor are planned to give each of these stakeholders more relevant and up-to-date (pension)
information.
Cappital Premiepensioeninstelling
Since April 1st, 2016, Cappital Premiepensioeninstelling is a 100% subsidiary of Aegon Nederland
which was originally established in 2011 as a foundation (e.g. Stichting Cappital
Premiepensioeninstelling).
As in previous years, Cappital grew substantially in 2017. This was caused by the acquisition of
large companies, as well as by the incoming transfers of pension rights. The amount of incoming
transfer of pension rights in 2017 was EUR 174 million (2016: EUR 230 million).
The activities of Cappital are based on a transparent and accessible Defined Contribution scheme,
its ‘subscription proposition’ product responds to employers needs regarding their responsibility
towards employees. Cappital offers simplicity and cost effectiveness. In addition Cappital offers the
employees user friendly communication tools for their financial planning. Cappital has a strong
position and a good reputation by larger companies.
For 2018, Cappital expects further growth in terms of new customers and incoming transfer of
pension rights of existing clients.

Page 14 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

TKP Pensioen
TKP administers pension rights for pension funds and premium pension institutions. At the end of
2017, 40 customers had entrusted this important work to TKP. Their clients - 3.3 million
participants – rely on TKP for correct and timely pension payments, and clear and accessible
pension information and communication. Central to TKP's strategy is a focus on simplicity, for
customers, for participants and for employers. TKP wants to offer participants and employers better
service and more convenience. And to be a strategic partner for pension funds, with a reliable and
flexible pension administration that is flawless. With the program ‘TKP Connect’, TKP is working
towards a more customer-oriented and agile organization in the coming years.
The specialists at TKP perform work for 23 pension funds, 14 social funds, 1 general pension fund
and 2 premium pension institutions. On behalf of these customers, in 2017 TKP has payed-out
approximately € 2.1 billion in pensions. TKP supports pension providers in achieving their strategic
objectives. TKP does this with a reliable and flexible pension administration at low costs. The
ambition goes further: TKP wants to be the best digital pension platform. The strategic programs
launched in 2017, focus on digitization of services, more intensive and strategic contact with
customers, automation of processes and simplification of arrangements.
In 2018 TKP will work with full conviction, systematically and carefully, on its change-strategy. TKP
invests heavily in innovation and digitization and continues to develop a state-of-the-art pension
platform, based on the promise of 'Pension made easy'. In addition, TKP brings its operations in
line with the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation (AVG). The new platform will
soon comply with the AVG and the guidelines of the National Cyber Security Center (NCSC). Safety
and protection of personal information becomes part of everything that TKP does. In 2018, TKP
expects a turnover increase to € 87 million and an increase in the number of participants in the
pension administration to approximately 3.6 million participants.
Unirobe Meeùs Groep (‘UMG’)
UMG with its most important labels Meeùs Assurantiën, IAK Verzekeringen, Kröller Verzekeringen
and UMG Assuradeuren (authorized agent), is one of the largest independent financial
intermediaries in the Netherlands in the field of insurance, pensions and mortgages. UMG and its
labels work for companies, (semi) governmental bodies, retail clients and private persons.
On October 31, 2017 Aegon Nederland sold its shares in Unirobe Meeùs Groep (UMG), an
independent financial advisory group, to Aon Groep Nederland for EUR 295 million. The transaction
is consistent with Aegon Nederland's strategic objective to optimize its portfolio across its
businesses.

2.

Financial information
Developments during the year

Underlying earnings reflect our profit from underlying business operations and exclude components
that relate to accounting mismatches that are dependent on market volatility or relate to events
that are considered outside the normal course business. Non-underlying earnings are earnings
dependent upon market volatility or relate to events that are considered outside the normal course
of business.

Page 15 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Earnings per line of business
Amounts in EUR million

2017

2016

Pensions

174

192

Life

161

185

Savings

139

124

Non-life

30

1

Distributions

17

27

Underlying earnings before tax

521

529

Fair value items

-113

-30

184

189

Impairment charges/(reversals)

-17

-12

Other income/(charges)

319

51

Non-underlying earnings before tax

374

198

Gains/(losses) on investments

Income before tax

895

727

Income tax

-168

-156

Net income

727

571

Aegon Nederland’s income before tax in 2017 was EUR 895 million (2016: EUR 727 million). The
underlying earnings before tax decreased with EUR 8 million and the non-underlying items were
EUR 176 million higher compared to the prior year.
In the following paragraphs more details on the development of income before tax are given.
Underlying earnings before tax
Underlying earnings before tax amounts to EUR 521 million (2016: EUR 529 million).
The changes per business line are explained as follows:
The business line Pensions decreased with EUR 18 million compared to 2016. This is mainly due to
lower results on morbidity and interest. Interest result is negatively impacted by declining yields
on investments.
The business line Life decreased with EUR 24 million compared to 2016. This is mainly due to the
shrinking ‘service book’ portfolio of the life business.
Earnings within business line Savings increased with EUR 15 million compared to 2016. The growth
of Knab led to an increase of Assets under management of EUR 871 million (2016: EUR 1,416
million). Together with declining interest rates this led to higher interest margins compared to
2016. The increased balance sheet drives additional income from the mortgage book, although the
rates on mortgages are declining. Furthermore increased exposure on consumer loans resulted in
additional income compared to last year.
The business line Non-Life significantly improved. This is mainly due to the divestment of the nonstrategic portfolio.
Developments in non-underlying income before tax, revenues per line of business in 2017 are
summarized below.

Page 16 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Fair value items
Total fair value items are EUR 83 million lower compared to 2016. This is explained by the
decreased result on derivatives and the guaranteed portfolio -/- EUR 135 million compared to 2016.
This is mainly the result of incorporating Solvency II and Economic Framework objectives in the
hedge strategy which lead to increased volatility of earnings under IFRS. Optimizing the hedge
strategy between IFRS and Solvency II is a continuous process. The decreased result on derivatives
and the guaranteed portfolio was partially offset by increased positive revaluations of EUR 52
million compared to 2016 on the real estate portfolio due to ongoing positive developments on the
Dutch real estate market.
Gains/(losses) on investments
Gains on investments remained stable in 2017 (EUR 184 million) compared to 2016 (EUR 189
million). Aegon Nederland continuously rebalances the asset portfolio to stay within internal
interest rate risk limits. The higher realized gains on the fixed income portfolio, following de-risking
activities, are partially offset by lower realized results on the equity portfolio in 2017 (EUR 45
million) compared to 2016 (EUR 74 million). This stems mainly from sales and capital distributions
in the Private Equity portfolio.
Other charges
Other income/(charges) increased in 2017 with EUR 268 million to EUR 319 million (2016: EUR 51
million). This is primarily due to the sale of Unirobe Meeùs Groep (UMG), as part of Aegon
Nederland’s strategic objective to optimize its portfolio across its businesses. The divestment lead
to a book gain of EUR 207 million pre-tax, which is reported as “other income”. The remainder
relates to the model changes in 2017.
The higher impairment charges are mainly due to the increased portfolio in consumer loans.
Revenues

Amounts in EUR million
Pensions

2017

2016

1.253

1.336

Life

601

675

Accident and health

203

210

General insurance

148

266

Gross premiums

2.205

2.488

Investment income

2.173

2.134

Fees and commissions income
Total revenues

329

353

4.707

4.974

Pensions
Revenues at the business line Pensions decreased in 2017 to EUR 1,253 million (2016: EUR: 1,336
million). The recurring premium production decreased. This is partly caused by a shift from
traditional pension products to PPI, for which Aegon Nederland receives fees, and partly due to
ongoing strong price competition, especially in the midmarket segment. Although market
circumstances for buyout deals remained difficult (e.g. low interest rates), single premium
production increased, mainly due to the introduction of the new product ‘Uitkerend
Beleggingspensioen’.
Life
Compared to last year revenues decreased with EUR 74 million. Recurring premiums were lower
than last year due to expired contracts which could not be offset by new production. The single
premiums were also lower than in 2016, mainly due to the declining market for individual life
insurance products as a result of strong competition from bank saving products.
Page 17 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Non-Life
Premium revenues of business line Non-Life, consisting of Accident and Health and General
Insurance, decreased by EUR 125 million. This is mainly caused by the divestment of the nonstrategic commercial portfolio in 2016.
Mortgages
Total mortgage production in 2017 increased to EUR 9.0 billion (2016: EUR 6.3 billion). The
mortgage production for fee business increased to EUR 4.6 billion (2016: EUR 4.2 billion) whereas
the mortgage production for own account increased to EUR 4.4 billion (2016: EUR 2.1 billion).
Fees and commissions expenses

Amounts in EUR million
Commissions

2017

2016

57

99

Operating expenses

865

862

Deferred expenses

-11

-11

Amortization charges DPAC/VOBA
Total commissions and expenses

27

32

938

982

The decrease in commissions and expenses in 2017 is mainly explained by the decrease of
commissions by EUR 42 million caused by the sale of the non-strategic commercial non-life
portfolio. Operating expenses remained stable in 2017 compared to 2016 as a result of increased
expenses due to the growth of business at Knab, TKP and Hypotheken. These increases are offset
by cost savings in the non-life business due to the divestment of the non-strategic commercial
portfolio. Furthermore, the cost of the Aegon Pension scheme increased compared to 2016, mainly
due to higher service costs.
Solvency and financial position
Shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2017 amounts to EUR 6,861 million compared to EUR 5,495
million at year-end 2016. The increase of EUR 1,366 million is mainly due to a EUR 1,000 million
capital contribution of Aegon N.V., the ultimate parent company of Aegon Nederland N.V., to
improve the capital position of Aegon Nederland’s subsidiary Aegon Levensverzekering. This was
done through two capital contributions in terms of share premium by Aegon Europe Holding B.V.
of respectively EUR 200 million on July 7, 2017 and EUR 800 million on August 31, 2017.
The remainder is mainly due to net income (EUR 727 million) in the income statement, which is
partly offset by the movement in the statement of comprehensive income (-/- EUR 363 million),
related to movements in the defined benefit obligation for Aegon personnel and the revaluation
reserve for investments.
Cash flows and funding
During 2017 the net cash flows increased with EUR 980 million (EUR 1,193 million increase in
2016). This increase is mainly explained by an increase in cash from financing activities of EUR
1,105 million (EUR -/- 886 million in 2016), mainly due to the capital contribution of EUR 1,000
million.
At year-end 2017 the funding structure of Aegon Nederland mainly exists of own equity as well as
funding through secularizations and saving deposits.

Page 18 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Circumstances that impact future income and results
On October 31, 2017 Aegon Nederland sold its shares in Unirobe Meeùs Groep (UMG) to Aon Groep
Nederland, as part of its strategic objective to optimize its portfolio across its businesses. As a
result of the sale of UMG, distribution earnings will decrease with approximately EUR 20 million
going forward. The remainder of distribution is related to Nedasco B.V. and van Nierop
Assuradeuren N.V..
The main drivers of future income and results are interest rate developments and market- and
demographic developments. No significant changes are expected for the following year regarding
investing, financing and Expense Fit. Furthermore, Aegon Nederland did not perform significant
activities regarding research and development during the year, nor expects to do so in the near
future.

Solvency II
Insurance supervision in EU member states is based on EU legislation, which, as of January 1,
2016, is embedded in the Solvency II framework.
The Solvency II framework also consists of an EU Directive (Level I) and has consequently been
transposed into the Dutch Financial Supervision Act. A large part of the Level II Solvency II rules
are, however, also set out in EU regulations. These apply directly in EU member states, and as a
consequence have not been implemented into national legislation.
The following insurance entities of Aegon Nederland are subject to prudential insurance supervision
of DNB:
Aegon Levensverzekering N.V.;
Aegon Schadeverzekering N.V.;
Aegon Spaarkas N.V.; and
Optas Pensioenen N.V.
An insurance company is not permitted to conduct both life insurance and non-life insurance
business within a single legal entity (with the exception of reinsurance). In addition, it is not
permitted to carry out both insurance and banking activities within the same legal entity.
Within Aegon Nederland, Aegon Levensverzekering N.V., Aegon Spaarkas N.V. and Optas
Pensioenen N.V. conduct life insurance activities. Aegon Schadeverzekering N.V. conducts non-life
insurance activities. Banking activities are covered through Aegon Bank N.V.
Prudential supervision is exercised by the home state supervisory authority (DNB in the
Netherlands). One of the main quantitative elements of insurance supervision is the assessment of
the solvency position of the insurance company. The solvency position is assessed through a
comparison of available capital (Own Funds) and required capital (Solvency Capital Requirement).
With respect to the Own Funds of Aegon Nederland, the liability calculation includes the use of the
volatility adjustment, but does not include the use of any transitional measures. Aegon Nederland
uses a Partial Internal Model (PIM) to calculate the Solvency Capital Requirement for its life
insurance activities under Solvency II. The Partial Internal Model was approved by DNB on
November 26, 2016, concluding the Internal Model Application Process.
After the initial Internal Model Application Process, Aegon Nederland has made some minor changes
to the internal model and has submitted two major changes to DNB for approval. Until approval,
these model changes are not reflected in the solvency position of Aegon Nederland.

Page 19 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Aegon Nederland uses a standard formula to calculate the solvency position of its non-life insurance
activities related to Aegon Schadeverzekering under Solvency II. The solvency position of the
banking activities will continue to be calculated using the CRR/CRD IV framework.
As per December 31, 2017, Aegon Nederland’s capital position is:

31-12-

31-12-

2017*

2016

Own Funds

6.484

Partial Internal Model SCR

3.254

3.769

199%

134%

Solvency II ratio

5.056

Solvency

Solvency

II Ratio*

II Ratio

Aegon Levensverzekering

186%

120%

Aegon Schadeverzekering

176%

159%

Aegon Spaarkas

479%

440%

Optas Pensioenen

721%

540%

199%

134%

Aegon Nederland

*The Solvency II ratio for 2017 is an estimate, is not final until filed with the regulator and subject
to supervisory review.
The increased Solvency II ratio of Aegon Nederland is mainly due to the capital contribution of EUR
1.000 million, the sale of UMG, positive market impacts, and model adjustments approved by the
DNB, which mainly related to adjusting the calculation of spread risk. These benefits were partly
offset by higher capital requirements from an ongoing program of increasing the share of illiquid
investments on the balance sheet of Aegon Nederland.
The sale of UMG increased the Solvency II capital with approximately EUR 225 million. This
improved the Solvency II ratio of Aegon Nederland by an estimated 7%-points. During 2017 Aegon
Nederland provided Aegon Levensverzekering with a capital injection of EUR 1,050 million. This
improved the SII ratio of Aegon Levensverzekering with an estimated 40%-points.
Minimum regulatory solvency requirements
Insurance laws and regulations contain minimum regulatory capital requirements of 100%
Solvency Capital Requirement (SCR) for insurance companies in the European Union. For insurance
companies in the European Union, Solvency II also defines a lower capital requirement, the
Minimum Capital Requirement (MCR). An irreparable breach of the MCR would lead to the
withdrawal of the insurance license.
With the introduction of Solvency II for EEA countries, Aegon views these minimum regulatory
capital requirements as the level around which the regulator will formally require management to
provide regulatory recovery plans. For insurance companies in the European Union this is set at
100% SCR.
All insurance entities operate in excess of this requirement.

Page 20 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

The Solvency ratios as disclosed in this section represent Aegon’s estimates and are not final until
filed with the regulator and subject to supervisory review. Aegon’s factor for the loss absorbing
capacity of deferred taxes (LACDT) in the Netherlands is 75%. The LAC DT factor of Aegon NL is
assessed on a quarterly basis, following DNB guidance, while monitoring effects of upcoming
corporate tax changes in the Netherlands and LAC DT related proposals in the SII regulation
consultation paper of EIOPA. Should the loss absorbency of taxes factor be lowered with 25%, this
would result in an 11%points decrease (2016: 8%points decrease) of the Solvency II ratio.
Moreover, the lowering of UFR from 4.2% to 4.05% would result in an estimated impact of 4%
decrease of the Solvency II ratio. The Solvency II capital ratio of Aegon Nederland does not include
any contingent liability potentially arising from unit-linked products sold, issued or advised on by
Aegon Nederland in the past as the potential liability cannot be reliably quantified at this point. In
addition, discussions are ongoing with respect to the interpretation/substantiation of certain
elements in the technical provisions and SCR.
The capitalization of Aegon Nederland and its subsidiaries is managed on regulatory requirements,
rating agency requirements and/or self-imposed criteria. The Solvency II SCR target range for all
insurance subsidiaries of Aegon Nederland, which is a self-imposed target range, are shown in the
table below. As per December 31, 2017, all insurance entities under the management of Aegon
Nederland operate in excess of the target range.
Capital Ratio
Opportunity
Target
Retention
Recovery
Regulatory Plan

3.

Aegon
Leven
>175%
145% - 175%
130% - 145%
100% - 130%
<100%

Optas
>235%
165% - 235%
150% - 165%
100% - 150%
<100%

Aegon
Schade
>175%
145% - 175%
130% - 145%
100% - 130%
<100%

Aegon
Spaarkas
>205%
155% - 205%
140% - 155%
100% - 140%
<100%

Aegon NL1
>190%
150% - 190%
130% - 150%
100% - 130%
<100%

Main risks and uncertainties
General

As a financial institution, Aegon manages risk for the benefit of its customers and other
stakeholders. As a result, the Company is exposed to a range of underwriting, operational and
financial risks. Aegon’s risk management and control systems are designed to ensure that these
risks are managed effectively and efficiently in a way that is aligned with the Company's strategy.

Objectives
Aegon’s risk appetite is determined by customer needs, Aegon’s competence to manage the risk,
the preference of Aegon for the risk, and whether there is sufficient capacity to take the risk. Key
inputs for Aegon’s risk preferences include expected returns, alignment between Aegon,
counterparty and customer interests, the existing risk exposures and other risk characteristics such
as diversification, the severity of the risk in an extreme market event and the speed at which risks
can materialize in Aegon’s capital position, liquidity position and net income.

1

Formally the individual legal entities of Aegon NL are regulatory supervised. However, from an overall point
of view we also set limits for Aegon NL. This is also relevant from an Aegon Group point of view, which
consolidates Aegon NL in the calculation of its PIM solvency capital ratios.
Page 21 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

In line with the risk appetite, key risk indicators (limits) are established to ensure that Aegon
maintains, at all times, a solvency and liquidity position such that in all circumstances the interest
of policyholders are met and protected. To accomplish this, Aegon has established a number of risk
criteria:






Financial strength: ensure Aegon meets long-term obligations to our clients, thereby
enabling Aegon to compete in key markets as a financially strong global insurer
Continuity: ensure that Aegon meets our obligations, even under extreme event scenarios
Culture: encourage strong risk awareness by communicating our risk appetite. This helps
to improve operational excellence and ensures fair treatment of our stakeholders
Behavior and Compliance: ensure that Aegon complies with the spirit and the text of
laws and regulations and encourage the right behavior and mindset
Risk balance: manage the concentration of risk and encourage risk diversification within
Aegon

Governance framework and structure
The goals of a strong culture of risk management and governance are to:

Minimize ambiguity by clearly defining roles and responsibilities and risk reporting
procedures

Institute a proper system of checks and balances

Ensure that senior management is aware of material risk exposures

Manage risk in line with the risk appetite

Reassure external stakeholders regarding appropriate risk management structures and
controls
Aegon’s risk management framework is represented across all levels of the organization. This
ensures a coherent and integrated approach to risk management throughout the Company.
Similarly, Aegon has a comprehensive range of company-wide risk policies that detail specific
operating guidelines and limits. These policies are designed to keep overall risk-specific exposures
to a manageable level. Any breach of policy limits or warning levels triggers immediate remedial
action or heightened monitoring.
Further risk policies may be developed at a local level to cover situations specific to particular
business units.
Aegon’s risk management governance structure has two basic layers:

Risk & Audit Committee (Operational, including Compliance risks)

Risk & Capital Committee (Financial risks)
In addition to these two basic layers, Aegon has established four key functions, required by
Solvency II, which include the risk management function, Compliance function, Internal audit
function and actuarial function. It is the mission of the Risk Management function to ensure the
continuity of the Company through safeguarding the value of existing business, protecting Aegon’s
balance sheet and reputation, and through supporting the creation of sustainable value for all
stakeholders.
In general, the objective of the Risk Management function is to support the business lines and
support units in ensuring that the Company reviews, assesses, understands and manages its risk
profile. Through oversight, the Risk Management function ensures the risk profile is managed in
line with Aegon’s risk appetite, and stakeholder expectations are managed under both normal
business conditions and extreme conditions caused by unforeseen events. The following roles are
important in order to realize the objective of the function:

Advising on risk-related matters including risk appetite, risk governance and risk
methodology

Supporting the development, incorporation and maintenance of the ERM framework

Monitoring and challenging the implementation and effectiveness of ERM practices
Page 22 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

3.3.1. Advising on risk-related matters




Bringing businesses together to facilitate information exchange, sharing best practices and
working together on relevant case studies and external standards in order to develop,
adopt and maintain relevant standards of practice throughout Aegon
Optimizing the use of capital and growth within risk/return and consumer conduct criteria

3.3.2. Supporting and facilitating












Developing and maintaining the ERM framework for identifying, measuring and managing
all material risks the Company is exposed to as defined in Aegon’s risk universe and
protecting Aegon’s reputation
Developing and maintaining Aegon’s risk methodology
Supporting the businesses with implementing the ERM framework, risk methodology and
standards of practice where needed
Supporting the Management Board in ensuring the effective operation of the ERM
framework and related processes, providing subject matter expertise to businesses as
appropriate and facilitating information exchange on good risk practices
Identifying and analyzing emerging risks, being input for ongoing risk strategy
development and to ensure that Aegon’s risk universe remains up to date
Model validation ensures independent review of methodology, assumptions, data, testing,
production, reporting and use of the Solvency II PIM
Analyzing Solvency II PIM outputs and performance and reporting results to the Boards
and relevant (Supervisory) Committees
Providing assurance on the integrity of models and cash flows through model validations
and maintenance of model validation policies and standards
Promoting a strong risk management culture across Aegon, including review of
performance targets and remuneration in line with the Aegon Group Global Remuneration
Framework

Challenging and monitoring

















Monitoring the ERM framework and overseeing compliance with risk governance
requirements, risk strategy and risk appetite, risk policies and risk methodology, which are
applicable to all businesses for which Aegon has operational control
Ensuring appropriate risk management information is prepared for use by the risk
committees
Overseeing material risk, balance sheet and business decisions taken throughout Aegon in
line with established risk governance arrangements
Monitoring and reporting on risk exposures and advising management on risk management
related matters, including in relation to strategic affairs such as strategy, mergers and
acquisitions and major projects and investments
Monitoring that the internal model is and remains appropriate to the Company’s risk
appetite and informing management about the on-going performance, suggesting
improvements
Monitoring risk exposures and risk policy compliance, including review of the Own Risk and
Solvency Assessment (ORSA) and Recovery Plan defined triggers and early warning
indicators
Acting as independent business partner with focus on control excellence, customer conduct,
capital allocation and by providing management focused risk tools or fostering debates and
proactively challenging on key business developments that may create significant exposure
Providing subject matter expertise and overseeing critical business initiatives to strengthen
risk management activities, to improve the risk profile and to resolve risk events and
control issues
Embedding robust oversight and risk management culture and processes
Protecting capital for all stakeholders
Page 23 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Lines of defense
Aegon’s risk management structure is organized along three ‘lines of defense’ to ensure conscious
risk-return decisions, and to limit the magnitude of potential losses within defined levels of
certainty. The objective of this structure is to avoid surprises due to the materialization of
unidentified risks, or from losses that exceed predefined risk tolerance levels and related limit
structures. The Company’s three lines of defense are its business and support functions, the Risk
Management department, and the audit function.
The Company's first line of defense, including the business and support functions, has a direct
responsibility for managing and taking risk in accordance with defined risk strategy, risk tolerances
and risk policies.
The second line of defense – including the risk management function, compliance function and
actuarial function – facilitates and oversees the effectiveness and integrity of ERM across the
Company.
The third line of defense – the audit function – provides independent assurance opinions on the
effectiveness of the internal control, risk management and governance systems.

Risk management 2017
Aegon faces a number of risks, some of which may arise from internal factors, such as inadequate
compliance systems. Others, such as movements in interest rates or unexpected changes in
longevity or mortality trends, are external in nature. The most significant risks Aegon faces are
that of changes in financial markets (particularly related to fixed income credit, equity and interest
rates) and underwriting risk (particularly related to longevity and policyholder behavior). The risks,
whether internal or external, may affect the Company's operations, earnings, share price, value of
its investments, or the sale of certain products and services. Risks can be categorized into
Operational risks and Financial risks.

Operational risks
Aegon faces operational risk resulting from operational failures or external events, such as
processing errors, acts from personnel, and natural or man-made disasters. Aegon’s systems and
processes are designed to support complex products and transactions and to avoid such issues as
system failures, business disruption, financial crime and breaches of information security. Aegon
analyzes on a continuous basis, such operational risks, and regularly develops contingency plans
to deal with them.
Operational risks are related to the operational activities and internal processes of Aegon Nederland
and include, amongst others, the risk of fraud and financial reporting, which could lead to reporting
incidents. Through Risk and Control Self Assessments, all processes are analyzed periodically and
recalibrated in order to bring risks within the thresholds of our risk appetite. In case of risk events,
a Root Cause Analysis is performed in order to investigate whether a control was missing or if a
particular control failed. Action plans are put in place to improve organizational control and these
are continuously monitored by the Operational Risk Management department.

Page 24 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

3.7.1. Strategic risks
In a highly competitive and regulated market, Aegon Nederland is facing some challenging
circumstances, such as low interest rates, a changing economic environment and a decline of the
life insurance market. Aegon Nederland’s strategic risks are identified in strong collaboration
between the Management Team of Aegon Nederland and the Risk Management & Compliance
department. All of these risks are monitored periodically. The underlying action plans are
challenged on their rigor and depth in order to address the risks at hand and reduce the residual
risks to an acceptable level.
In order to stay successful, Aegon Nederland moved from a product oriented organization towards
a customer oriented organization in 2017. In addition, Aegon Nederland increasingly makes use of
new technologies that create new opportunities in the way products and services are provided to
the customers. At the same time, Aegon Nederland is improving its administration services by
outsourcing part of her administration to more specialized parties. These are all examples of
promising developments with inherent strategic risk components. Central to this is continuing the
shift to fee-based businesses, while maximizing the value of the heritage business through cost
savings and alternative investments.
Aegon Nederland has identified strategic risks that relate to the businesses Aegon conducts.
Strategic risks include for instance longevity, default, financial crime, liquidity, compliance,
processing, reporting, modelling, outsourcing and information security risks.

3.7.2. Regulatory and compliance risks
Aegon Nederland aims to embed compliance with laws, regulations, business principles, rules of
conduct, customer agreements and established good business practices in every aspect of the
organization. Aegon Nederland promotes integrity by establishing and maintaining effective
compliance risk management and control systems, including monitoring and reporting is key for
Aegon Nederland. Among the regulatory risks Aegon considers are also the risk related to the
litigation portfolio and product-related issues. Aegon Nederland has a process in place to ensure
that it flags and defines the impact of new laws and regulations and implements them in a timely
manner. The Board of Directors and the Legal department are responsible for executing this
process. The Risk Management & Compliance department assesses from the second line whether
this process is adequate and if necessary, advises and challenges the proper execution of this
process.
To best safeguard customers’ interests, Aegon does not simply put any proposition on the market.
Every new and updated proposition follows a proposition-approval process. In this process, we
carefully balance the risks in a proposition and test it against the duty of care towards the customer,
financial sustainability and suitability within the Aegon Nederland vision, strategy and objectives.
In addition to the proposition approval process, Aegon Nederland uses a propositions review
process for existing propositions. Existing propositions, selected through the use of pre-defined
risk indicators, also go through this process to best safeguard customers’ interests. Both processes
determine whether a proposition meets Aegon Nederland’s current standards. They incorporate
statutory requirements and consider whether the proposition is cost efficient, useful, secure and
comprehensible for the target group and also whether it fits the Aegon Nederland vision, strategy,
core values and competences.

Page 25 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

3.7.3. Reporting risk
Aegon N.V. is subjected to Sarbanes Oxley (SOx) and Solvency II regulation, and as a significant
entity also Aegon Nederland is compulsory to comply with specific stringent regulation. Aegon
Nederland tests the design, existence and performance of key controls on a yearly basis to ensure
that material misstatements in the financial figures can be prevented or detected in a timely
manner. Based on a materiality threshold and qualitative indicators Aegon Nederland determines
which accounts of the financial statement are in scope for this internal financial audit. Procedures
ensure that operational risk management is able to independently conclude and provided
reasonable assurance of the internal controls over financial reporting.

3.7.4. Modelling risk
Modelling risk includes flawed and/or insufficiently documented methods used in model design, or
incorrect model coding or calculations caused by change management failure, flawed or insufficient
model development and testing procedures. This also includes flawed and/or incorrect model
assumptions and insufficient documentation of expert judgment, incorrect model results as a result
of the use of incomplete, inaccurate, or inappropriate data or models used in production are
corrupted, not sufficiently understood by users, not used for its intended purpose, or not at all, or
insufficiently documented.
An Aegon model validation framework is operated to ensure that the models remains appropriate
to measure risk exposure and hence risk capital in the business. Risk measurement calibration is
derived by the model owners and model owner testing. Model validation involves the assessment
of each model across a range of validation tests and standards as set out in the framework. This is
conducted independently by the model validation team within the second line of defense.

3.7.5. Outsourcing risk
Outsourcing risk includes discontinuity of outsourced services e.g. bankruptcy, disruption of
services, or standards of service level agreements not being met. Possible misuse of both the ability
and capability of the outsourcing/ supplier party is perceived as a specific Outsourcing Risk. As well
as the disregard of concentration risk implications at the outsourcing/ supplier party and potentially
at the sub-supplier. Aegon manages outsourcing risks via dedicated service level managers,
contract management, service level reports, site visits, assurance report reviews and periodic
meetings.

3.7.6. Information security risk
Information security risk relates to confidentiality, integrity and availability of information. Access
to data by unauthorized parties could lead to loss of competitive advantages or could lead to privacy
related risks. Information risk includes unauthorized or erroneous changes to business data or
applications (business process controls) leading to fraud, error or failing internal controls. It also
includes the loss of data and systems, or unavailability, causing inability to meet business process
needs.
Aegon protects and continually strengthens its existing security control environment and use
preventive tooling to minimize impact and exposure to new and existing threats. Evaluations of
security controls – including detection and response capabilities are frequently performed by both
internal and external experts. Identified vulnerabilities are followed-up by risk based actions plans,
which are reported, tracked and monitored by management.

Page 26 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

3.7.7. Credit risk
Credit Risk is a combination of Fixed Income Risk and Counterparty Risk. Fixed Income Risk is the
risk that the market value of fixed income investments will fluctuate because of changes in the
financial condition of the obligor. This risk can result from changes in the rating category of the
obligor, regular fluctuation of spreads associated with each credit rating over time, and potentially
default. Counterparty Risk is the risk that the value of positions taken by Aegon to change its riskreturn profile (e.g., derivatives or reinsurance) will fluctuate because of a deteriorating financial
condition of those counterparties.Having a well-diversified investment portfolio means that Aegon
can accept credit spread risk to earn a liquidity premium on assets that match liabilities.

3.7.8. Equity market risk and other investment risks
Aegon runs the risk that the market value of its investments changes. Investment risk affects
Aegon’s direct investments in the general account, indirect investments on the account of clients
and agreements where Aegon relies on counterparties, such as reinsurance and derivative
counterparties. Aegon has a low preference for investments in equity securities via the general
account. Equity investments generate an equity risk premium over the long run, but in combination
with a high capital charge result in a relatively low return on capital. Aegon has experience and
expertise in managing complex investment guarantees and leverages this capability by providing
customers access to a range of investment strategies and guaranteed benefits.

3.7.9. Interest rate risk
Aegon is exposed to interest rates as both its assets are liabilities are sensitive to movements in
the long and short term interest rates as well as to changes in the volatility of interest rates. Aegon
accepts interest rate risk in order to meet customer needs. However, as no spread is earned on
this interest rate risk, Aegon prefers to hedge the risk to the extent possible.

3.7.10.

Liquidity risk

Aegon needs to maintain sufficient liquidity to meet short term cash demands under normal
conditions, but also in crisis situations. To that end, Aegon has put a strong liquidity management
strategy in place. Aegon considers extreme liquidity stress scenarios, including the possibility of
prolonged ‘frozen’ capital markets, an immediate and permanent rise in interest rates, and
policyholders withdrawing liabilities at the earliest conceivable date. In addition, the Company has
liquidity stress planning in place.

3.7.11.

Underwriting risk

Underwriting risk relates to the products sold by Aegon’s insurance entities. It is the risk of incurring
losses when actual experience deviates from Aegon’s best estimate assumptions on mortality,
morbidity, policyholder behavior, claims and expenses. Aegon has a preference to selectively grow
underwriting risk, but this needs to go hand-in-hand with a strong underwriting process. Aegon’s
earnings depend, to a significant degree, on the extent to which claims experience is consistent
with assumptions used to price products and establish technical liabilities. Changes in, among other
things, morbidity, mortality, longevity trends and policyholder behavior may have a considerable
impact on the Company's income. Assumptions used to price products and establish technical
liabilities are reviewed on a regular basis.

Page 27 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Internal Audit
As explained above, Aegon Nederland is organized along the lines of a ‘three lines of defense’
model. In this set-up, Internal Audit Nederland (IAN) is the third line of defense and the internal
audit function of Aegon Nederland N.V. and its subsidiaries. IAN assists the Executive Board, the
Risk and Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board and Senior Management in enhancing and
protecting organizational value by providing independent assurance opinions, advice and insight
on effectiveness of internal controls, risk management and governance.
As the third line of defense, IAN is positioned independently from executive management. To
ensure the independence of the internal auditors, the Chief Audit Executive (CAE) IAN has a
reporting line to the CEO Aegon Nederland N.V., the Group Chief Audit Executive and the Audit
Committee of the Supervisory Boards of Aegon Nederland N.V. and Aegon Bank N.V., respectively.
The Internal Audit Charter (charter), approved by the respective Supervisory Board of Aegon
Nederland N.V. and Supervisory Board Aegon Bank N.V., regulates IAN’s authority and
responsibilities.
The charter states that independent auditors are not allowed to have any operational
responsibilities within the first line of defense.
IAN has regular contact and consultations with the Supervisory Board’s Risk & Audit Committee
and the external independent auditor to discuss the audit plan and the outcome of engagements
Internal Audit Nederland also engages in frequent contacts with regulators to discuss risk analysis,
findings and audit plans.

Asset and Liability Management and Financial instruments
In order to execute on Aegon Nederland’s goal to enable clients to achieve a lifetime of financial
security, we offer products that absorb risks on behalf of our clients, such as market and
underwriting risks. These risks need to be managed actively. It is unlikely that the risks which we
take on from our clients, always automatically lead to our preferred risk profile and therefore we
have a risk strategy in place. Aegon Nederland keeps the preferred risks in light of the targeted
risk profile, but mitigates the remaining risks by, for example, hedging the risks. Our use of
derivatives relates mostly to the latter. For each portfolio containing derivatives, we have set up
detailed guidelines on the scope of instruments and the purpose of the derivatives.
Within its total Asset and Liability Management (ALM) framework, Aegon Nederland makes use of
predominantly fixed income instruments for matching its liabilities. These are, to a large extent,
high quality sovereign and corporate bonds and loans. In addition, in the Netherlands a sizeable
portfolio of residential mortgages has been built up to match liability cash flows. Derivatives are
used in addition to these instruments in order to hedge the guarantees embedded in some of our
products and to optimize our ALM. This can be done through directly targeting specific risks, such
as interest rate risk via e.g. interest rate swaps (IRS) or longevity risk via a longevity swap. For
more complex risk exposures, we use a combination of options, total return swaps and variance
swaps.

Page 28 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Aegon Nederland sees derivatives as a suitable instrument to use in its ALM processes. The
derivatives market is a highly regulated market. Any counterparty risks embedded in such
transactions are contained with strong collateral processes that Aegon Nederland has put in place
for all of its derivatives, through the use of high quality collateral. The advent of central clearing
for parts of the derivatives markets has increased the collateral requirements and reduced
counterparty risk. Liquidity risk, which is the direct result of the collateral processes, needs to be
managed carefully. Due to market movements, our collateral position may change rapidly and in
order not to breach any collateral agreements, Aegon Nederland has to ensure availability of
sufficient high quality collateral at all times in order to comply with collateral calls from our
counterparties. Our liquidity stress testing is set up to monitor this need. Operational risk is another
key risk, considering derivatives are specialized instruments that require expertise as well as a
specific (IT) infrastructure in order to be managed properly. Furthermore, as recent developments
have shown regulatory risk as a category within operational risk, it needs constant monitoring. Our
automated processes regarding real-time monitoring, automated controls and integrated reporting
reduce operational risks and enable us to comply with increasing demands from regulations.
Aegon Nederland's Risk & Capital Committee, which meets at least once a month, determines and
monitors the capital position, the balance sheet as well as the market value income statement. The
focus of these meetings is, among other activities, to ensure an optimal strategic asset allocation,
to decide on hedging strategies to reduce interest rate and equity risks, to manage and possibly
hedge actuarial risks, and to decide on the need for securitizations of residential mortgage
portfolios in order to improve the liquidity and funding position of Aegon Nederland.

Pending litigation portfolio and product-related issues
KoersPlan
In June 2013, the Dutch Supreme Court turned down an appeal from Aegon Spaarkas against a
ruling of the Court of Appeal with respect to a specific unit-linked product, “KoersPlan”. As a result,
Aegon Spaarkas compensated the approximately 35,000 holders of KoersPlan products who were
plaintiffs in the litigation.
In June 2014, Aegon announced that it would voluntarily compensate holders of KoersPlan products
who were not plaintiffs in the litigation. Compensation amounted to the difference, if any, between
the actual premium charged by Aegon and the premium that would have been charged by Aegon
for a comparable risk in a product providing only death benefit coverage over the same period.
This product improvement is explicitly supported by the consumer interest group that initiated the
court action over the KoersPlan product, Stichting Koersplandewegkwijt. A follow-up and extension
of the Regeling Spaarbeleg for the Spaarbeurs and Spaarlift portfolio of Aegon Spaarkas started in
2017 and is expected to continue in 2018. However, another interest group, Stichting
Woekerpolisproces, indicated in 2014 that it will challenge the scope and magnitude of the
announced compensation measurement.
Unit-linked products
Generally speaking, there is still media, political and regulatory attention regarding unit-linked
policies (beleggingsverzekeringen). Individual customers as well as policyholder advocate groups
and their representatives continue to focus on the fees and charges included in products, as well
as alleged transparency aspects. Aegon expects this to remain an issue for the industry for the
foreseeable future. Exposure and attention will be stimulated by court cases. In September 2014,
consumer interest group Vereniging Woekerpolis.nl filed a class action against Aegon
Levensverzekering and Aegon Spaarkas in court. The claim was related to a range of unit-linked
products which Aegon sold in the past and include products that already had been subject to
litigation, such as KoersPlan.

Page 29 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

On June 28, 2017 the District Court of The Hague has rendered a final ruling which limited the
scope to three products, Koersplan (tontine), Vermogensplan (tontine) and Fundplan (UL) and
excluded all policies with a guarantee. The court upheld the principle that disclosures must be
evaluated according to standards at the time when the relevant products were placed in-force.
Most of the claims of Vereniging Woekerpolis.nl were dismissed under this standard, although the
court found that Aegon did not adequately disclose the level of certain charges on a limited set of
policies. According to the court these cost levels should be reasonable. The court did not give a
judgement about the reasonableness of the cost levels and whether the previous compensation
arrangements provide sufficient compensation. Both The Vereniging Woekerpolis.nl and Aegon
have filed an appeal against the ruling of the District Court in The Hague. Furthermore there are
claims pending at the Klachteninstituut Financiële Dienstverlening (Kifid) and the District Courts,
filed by individual customers regarding Aegon Levensverzekering and Aegon Spaarkas unit-linked
products that arguably include similar allegations. At the moment, Kifid is delaying the handling of
complaints about the unit-linked policies (beleggingsverzekeringen), awaiting the rulings of the
Kifid Appeal Committee.
Securities leasing products (“aandelenlease”)
Lawsuits have also been brought against providers of securities leasing products. In September
2016 the Dutch Supreme Court ruled on a case involving a securities leasing product sold by one
of Aegon’s competitors. It decided that a financial institution was liable where the broker (‘remisier’)
who advised on the sales of this financial institution’s securities leasing products was not properly
licensed to provide advice with regard to such products. Individual clients and advocate groups
have already claimed or alleged that this ruling also applies to Aegon securities leasing products.
In July 2016, consumer interest group Platform Aandelenlease filed a class action claim against
Aegon Bank regarding Sprintplan. Allegations include among other things, advice by remisiers that
lacked proper licenses. In October 2017, the district court of The Hague ruled the case inadmissible
and found in favor of Aegon Bank that the Sprintplan liability had been conclusively determined in
earlier proceedings and there were nog grounds to hold further class action proceedings. The
plaintiff appealed. The case is now pending at the court of appeal of The Hague. Although the last
Sprintplan expired more than a decade ago and there is a long history of litigation regarding
security leasing products – including the two prior class actions regarding Sprintplan –, it cannot
be excluded that these proceedings might have a material adverse effect on Aegon’s results of
operations or financial position. There are claims pending at the Klachteninstituut Financiële
Dienstverlening (Kifid) , the District Courts and the Court of Appeal, filed by individual customers
regarding Aegon securities leasing products that arguably include similar allegations.

4.

Corporate Governance

Aegon Nederland has a Code of Conduct in place. The Aegon Nederland Code of Conduct is intended
to provide further clarity on sound and responsible business practices, and ensure a common
approach for how we carry out our business in Aegon Nederland’s markets.
Aegon Nederland also endorses the values from the (Bank and Insurance) oath/promise. The
oath/promise is a so-called “moral ethics statement” that is effective in the Netherlands since April
1, 2015 The “moral ethics statement” is given by employees in the financial sector in the
Netherlands, with the aim of being fully aware, keeping in mind their special role in society, that
they must always carefully weigh the interests of all stakeholders, with the interests of the
customer taking a central place.
The most important parts of the oath/promise to be taken concern:
• Integrity and diligence.
• Careful weighing of interests with the customers’ interests taking a central place.
• Compliance with laws, rules and code of conduct.
• Confidentiality and no abuse of knowledge.
• Transparency and responsibility.
• Preservation of trust in the financial industry.
Page 30 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

The ultimate holding company of Aegon Nederland, Aegon N.V., is supervised as a financial services
group by the Dutch Central Bank ‘De Nederlandsche Bank or DNB’. Aegon N.V. observes the laws
and regulations applicable in their local markets and country units; for example, Aegon N.V.
complies with SEC requirements and the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In addition, Aegon N.V. complies
with international corporate governance guidelines, including the Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises set in place by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).
This is reflected in the corporate governance of Aegon Nederland.
Governance principles
The Governance principles for Insurers issued by the Dutch Association of Insurers was revoked
on January 1, 2016. Aegon continues to subscribe to the importance of governance principles and
will therefore continue to act according to the governance principles as are implemented within
Aegon Nederland. Aegon Nederland also complies with other relevant governance guidelines and
self-regulation by the Dutch Association of Insurers. Below, the most important elements of our
governance principles are explained.
Accountability
We present an overview of the application of our governance principles. This is done on behalf of
the insurance companies Aegon Levensverzekering, Aegon Schadeverzekering, Aegon Spaarkas
and Optas Pensioenen. The accountability report also forms an integral part of the annual reports
of these insurance companies. References below to ‘Aegon Nederland’ includes these insurance
companies.
Supervisory Board
Membership and expertise
The majority of the members of Aegon Nederland’s Supervisory Board are formally independent
and operate independently in accordance with the Principles and requirements of DNB’s Suitability
Policy Rule 2012 (Beleidsregel geschiktheid 2012). Given the members’ different professional and
educational backgrounds, ages and range of knowledge and experience, the Supervisory Board has
a broad-based membership. In Aegon Nederland’s view, the members’ knowledge and experience
complement each other. Aegon has set out in detail the Supervisory Board’s duties in the
Supervisory Board Charter. Aegon has an up-to-date profile of the Supervisory Board, further
specifying and recording its vision on the membership. The profile is tailored to Aegon Nederland’s
nature, size and complexity and also incorporates the competences in DNB’s Suitability Matrix for
Supervisory Boards.
In 2017 the Supervisory Board consisted of four members, and will be supplemented with a fifth
member in 2018. Aegon Nederland and the Supervisory Board believe this number to be
appropriate in proportion to the nature, size and complexity of Aegon Nederland and the insurers
in the group. Aegon Nederland and the Supervisory Board also believe the size and membership of
the committees, such as the Risk & Audit Committee, to be appropriate.
The members have broad social and commercial backgrounds and experience. As members of
Aegon Nederland’s Supervisory Board and through other supervisory directorships, they have indepth knowledge of the role and function of insurance companies and their stakeholders in society.
Regarding decision making and supervision, the Supervisory Board balances the interests of all
stakeholders, including customers, distribution partners and employees. Where relevant, this is
recorded in the minutes and is part of the self-evaluation by the Supervisory Board.

Page 31 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Furthermore a Supervisory Board profile is available and if a vacancy arises, an individual profile
is to be created. In addition to Aegon Nederland performing annual checks of individual critical
abilities against the DNB’s Suitability Matrix for Supervisory Boards, regular self-evaluations and
permanent education programs are followed. If a vacancy arises for the position of chairman, an
individual profile is drawn up which focuses on the Supervisory Board’s and Aegon Nederland’s
requirements regarding expertise and experience in relation to the financial sector, familiarity with
socio-economic and political culture and the social environments of Aegon Nederland’s main
markets.
Experience has shown that all members of the Supervisory Board are sufficiently available and
accessible to perform their duties properly. The importance of this principle is underlined in the
profile, the Rules of the Supervisory Board and the Aegon Nederland Governance Guide.
Compliance is also checked in the regular self-evaluations.
The members of the Supervisory Board receive suitable compensation that is independent of Aegon
Nederland’s financial results. Compensation is set by the General Meeting of Shareholders.
Aegon Nederland has a permanent education program for members of the Supervisory Board and
the Board of Directors (see below). The program covers national and international developments
in the financial sector as well as corporate governance in general and in the financial sector in
particular. The program further includes topics such as the duty of care towards customers and
putting customers’ interests first, integrity, risk management, financial reporting and audit.
The 2017 program focused on (inter alia) Solvency II, earning models, sound operational
management/In Control, strategy development, culture change/competence development and
sessions on the development of a new and agile way of working (Future Fit way of working).
Members of the Supervisory Board have participated and will continue to participate in the program
as a whole or in those parts relevant to them.
Once a year, the Supervisory Board assesses the effectiveness of the permanent education
program. In December 2017, the Supervisory Board evaluated its own functioning, this year under
the external supervision of KPMG. The results were satisfactory and were discussed by the
Supervisory Board and with the Board of Directors and where necessary, actions were taken.
Duties and working methods
The Supervisory Board’s discussions on risk management decisions are prepared by the Risk &
Audit Committee. The Risk & Audit Committee Charter was updated in 2017.
The members of the Aegon Risk & Audit Committee have adequate knowledge, experience and/or
competences to allow for sound supervision of the financial aspects of risk management, financial
reporting, internal control and audit.

Page 32 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Board of Directors
Membership
At Aegon Nederland, complementarity and diversity within the Board of Directors is ensured by the
members’ different backgrounds, personalities and range of knowledge and experience. Whereas
the members of the Board of Directors have equal decision-making authority, it aspires to take
decisions by consensus as far as possible.
The members of the Board of Directors have broad-based commercial background and experience
in the financial sector in general and in insurance in particular. With this wide range of experience
they have sufficient knowledge of the function of insurance companies in society and are aware of
the interests of stakeholders. Each member of the Board of Directors also has the necessary
knowledge to be able to assess and determine the main points of Aegon Nederland’s overall policy
and to form a balanced and independent opinion on the risks that Aegon faces.
The knowledge of the members of the Board of Directors is kept up to standard and is improved
by means of Aegon Nederland’s permanent education program, which is organized by the Secretary
of the Board, together with the HR Learning & Development department. The latter is also
responsible for keeping records on participation. The 2017 program focused on (inter alia) Solvency
II, earning models, sound operational management/In Control, strategy development, culture
change/competence development and sessions on the development of a new and agile way of
working (Future Fit way of working). Aegon Nederland encourages other employees to follow useful
training courses as well.
In 2017, the Supervisory Board noted that the Board of Directors was functioning well and that the
members held sufficient expertise.
In its decisions, the Board of Directors takes into account Aegon Nederland’s risk appetite. The
Board considers whether or not a decision to be taken is within the risk appetite, thus ensuring a
careful balance between its commercial objectives and the interests and the risks involved.
The CRO is the director of the risk management function (the Risk Management & Compliance
department), which is organized as a second line of defense (see the Risk Management paragraph
above). He is also a member of the Board of Aegon Nederland. In this capacity, the CRO is closely
involved in all the decisions that have a material impact on Aegon Nederland’s risk profile. The risk
management function focuses on financial stability and the impact that systemic risks may have
on Aegon Nederland’s risk profile. The CRO reports hierarchically to the CEO and also has a direct
reporting line to the Chairman of the Risk and Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board.
The CFO is fully responsible for the financial and capital management of Aegon Nederland. The CFO
leads the financial function in the statutory board of Aegon Nederland in the broadest sense, to
ensure the financial position of Aegon Nederland is known at all times, the management is in control
and regulators and other stakeholders receive sufficient reports to form a judgment about the state
of Aegon Nederland in time. The function is responsible for the financial policies of Aegon
Nederland. Amongst others the departments of Financial Information Management and Reporting
Office and Capital Management report to the CFO.
The CFO has no individual commercial responsibility and operates independently of other
commercial areas.
Duties and working methods
In its decision making, Aegon Nederland’s Board of Directors carefully considers the interests of all
parties concerned, taking into account its vision, strategy and applicable codes of conduct such as
the Aegon Nederland Code of Conduct.

Page 33 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Putting customers and their interests first is at the heart of our vision, strategy and day-to-day
activities. It is an integral part of our thinking and runs through all operations at every level of the
company. This means that employees with customer contacts are closely involved with the theme.
There are special training programs on the theme and it is part of our recruitment policy.
In Aegon Nederland’s vision, the company holds responsibility for people’s financial awareness and
development. Aegon Nederland strives to offer easily-understood solutions in genuine dialogue in
order to enable customers to make conscious decisions about their financial future. Aegon
Nederland wants to present matters as they are. We believe it is our responsibility to assist
customers and explain things in a simple way. More detailed information on this vision can be found
on the website (www.aegon.nl).
The customer comes first in our strategy. The strategy aims to carefully balance the interests of
not only customers, but also of all Aegon Nederland stakeholders, including employees. Aegon
Nederland believes that paying attention to the interests of all stakeholders is in the customer’s
interest.
The members of the Board of Directors act in a careful, expert and fair manner. They keep up to
date with developments in legislation and regulations, partly through the permanent education
program. All members of the Board of Directors took the oath or affirmation as required by the
Financial Sector Oath or Affirmation Regulations.
Integrity, care and putting customers’ interests first are guiding principles for all Aegon Nederland
employees, which is reflected in the Aegon Nederland Code of Conduct and applies to all Aegon
Nederland employees. The Aegon Nederland Code of Conduct has been placed on:
http://www.aegon.nl/overaegon/maatschappij/gedragscode/
Since 2012, contracts of employment have included a specific reference to the Aegon Nederland
Code of Conduct. By signing their employment contract, employees confirm that they have read
and accept the codes of conduct applying at Aegon Nederland and will comply with the current and
all future codes of conduct applicable at Aegon. Shortly after their appointment, all new recruits go
through an e-learning module that uses questions and answers to introduce the Aegon Nederland
Code of Conduct, the principles in it and the spirit in which it was drawn up.

5.

Corporate social responsibility
General

Responsible and sustainable business is very important to Aegon Nederland and its subsidiaries. It
is its mission to enable customers to make self-conscious decisions on their healthy financial future.
Every day Aegon Nederland helps people to live a solid financial life, today and later on. Aegon
Nederland also knows that not everyone is able to make conscious choices. In society, people need
to take care of themselves more and more and unfortunately there are many people who fail to
succeed. For that reason Aegon Nederland takes a position in society for people with debts by
helping people on their way to opportunities. In addition, Aegon Nederland supports the research
into Alzheimer's disease. Aegon Nederland’s employees play an important role in both programs.
A third pillar in Aegon Nederland’s responsible and sustainable strategy lies in its environment.
Amongst others, Aegon is involved in improving the quality of the environment. At Aegon Nederland
there is a focus on investments in sustainable real estate and the energy transition. But also by
looking at offices, mobility, cooperation with other companies, and by creating awareness amongst
employees, suppliers and other stakeholders.

Page 34 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Responsible and sustainable business strategy, implementation and reporting for Aegon Nederland
is done by the Responsible and Sustainable business team within the Strategy and Change office.
The Aegon Nederland activities are aligned with the department of Strategy and Sustainability of
Aegon N.V. in order to maintain focus and share best practices.

Environment
In 2017 it was decided to increase the impact on the environment with a focus on climate change.
Aegon Nederland wants to contribute for that matter to SDG#13 (Sustainable Development Goal
number 13 is Climate Action) as an asset manager by investing EUR 40 million in a green loan
issued by Mann+Hummel, a global leading player in the filtration market to (re)finance eligible
projects - and as an asset owner – through the 50% share in Amvest, the leading Dutch residential
real estate fund manager and developer, whose priority it is to make the sector more sustainable.
In Aegon Nederland’s offices and as an employer there is also focus on the environment. In
Leeuwarden, Aegon Nederland moved in December 2016 from an office with an energy label E to
a building with label A, the highest energy-efficiency level. In the renovation of the new building,
much attention has been paid to energy efficiency. In addition, at the facility a number of cradle
to cradle applications has been chosen. Part of the rooftop of the office in The Hague is now
equipped with solar panels, owned by a co-operation of 60 families in the neighborhood. The
installation of the panels started in January 2017 and the 539 solar panels will reduce 953 ton CO2.
The biggest part of Aegon Nederland’s CO2-emissions of Aegon is caused by mobility. Although a
large group of the employees choose to travel to work by public transportation and by bike, the
majority comes by car due to the limitations of public transportation. In order to encourage more
employees to travel by public transportation and by bike, multiple facilities have been put in place.
At both the offices in The Hague and Leeuwarden a bike repair facility is being offered as of 2017.
Furthermore, Aegon reduced the amount of leasing cars and increased the number of possibilities
to charge an electric car or bike.

Social
After several months of preparation, Aegon Nederland started in January 2017 with a new program
aimed at society: Van Schulden naar Kansen (From Debts to Opportunities). Within this program
the aim is to reduce the number of households living in poverty due to debts with 15% in 5 years.
By helping the households in the cities in which Aegon is located (Den Haag and Leeuwarden in
2017; Groningen starts in 2018) with learning skills, knowledge and behavior on their financial
situation. For that matter Aegon Nederland works together with local organizations. Aegon
Nederland supports those organizations financially and with the help of Aegon employees acting as
a volunteer. The impact of this program is measured by the Hogeschool van Amsterdam. With ‘Van
Schulden naar Kansen’ Aegon joined its competitor Delta Lloyd.
As in previous years Aegon Nederland had a Kids Counsel in 2017. A Kids Counsel encourages
organizations to look at themes, based on the awareness that current decisions will have an impact
on future generations. In the reporting year Aegon Nederland’s Kids Counsel gave the Board of
Aegon Nederland advice on an issue linked to the ‘Van Schulden naar Kansen’ program: How can
you help people who have come out of debt / poverty to keep the new habit they need?
For the sixth consecutive year, employees helped 29 people with 1-on-1 conversations during the
‘Pensioen3daagse’ to improve understanding of what they would need for their retirement. During
the ‘Week van het Geld’ (Money Week) in March, employees gave 193 lessons at primary schools
to raise children’s financial awareness on insurance.

Page 35 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

In April 2017 approximately 500 employees participated in the so called ‘Volunteering Friday’.
During this annual event Aegon Nederland promotes the opportunity to do volunteering work as
laid out in the Collective Labor Agreement. The activities are all organized in nearby municipalities.
Along with the offices in The Hague, Leeuwarden and Groningen, the subsidiaries Nedasco and
UMG also participated. The Volunteering Friday has also expanded to six other Aegon countries this
year.
There has been ongoing attention to the sponsorship of the Alzheimer Center of the VU University
Medical Center. Since 2002 Aegon Nederland has been the main sponsor. This sponsorship is
aligned with Aegon Nederland’s vision: enable people to make self-conscious decisions on their
healthy financial future. People who suffer from Alzheimer’s disease are unable to make selfconscious choices. Some of the activities in the 2017 sponsorship were: employees took part in the
Alzheimer Rally, business relations and employees joined their effort in the ‘5th Aegon Bike
Challenge’ and 50 employees participated the ‘Dam tot Dam loop’ to promote the research on
Alzheimer’s disease.
Since 2016, Aegon employees do not get a Christmas hamper anymore. The value is divided into
a limited number of charities. The Alzheimer Center is one of them.

Economic
Corporate Social Responsibility is about People, Planet and Profit. The first two paragraphs of this
chapter described the efforts on People and Planet. But Aegon Nederland’s mission also entails the
economic perspective: enable customers to make conscious decisions on their healthy financial
future.
Aegon Nederland continued the so called ‘Aandacht gesprekken’ were continued in 2017: 1-on-1
contact with people on a specific financial subject of their concern. Approximately 500 this year,
with a focus on mortgages. In 2017 Aegon Nederland also helped future parents: Through various
channels Aegon Nederland promoted a checklist (‘Kraamlijst’) placed on the company website to
find out what future parents need to bear in mind on the (financial) issues of getting a child.
At Knab there were 3,500 customers who completed the Financial Plan in 2017. With a financial
plan you get insight into your current and future situation. Step by step, you make a map of your
financial situation. The tool then calculates and shows you a complete Financial Plan. Knab also
helps you – unsolicited - with specific tips and tricks.
The last example of the products based on Aegon Nederland’s mission, is the Aegon Profielwijzer
(Profilepointer). This tool has been developed so participants with a defined contribution scheme
can choose between a fixed or variable pension benefit on the retirement date. A participant can
already pre-sort in the construction phase with his or her investment choice. This is not a simple
choice. That is why Aegon Nederland has developed the Aegon Profielwijzer, with scientific insights
of behavioral economics. In 5 minutes, a participant knows what pension fits with him and which
investment profile belongs to it. So far, approximately 17,000 customers used this tool. The Aegon
Profielwijzer has been rewarded by ‘Wijzer in Geldzaken’ during the Pensioen3daagse in November.

Page 36 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

6.

Outlook
Developments

The insurance industry has been in a period of major change for a number of years, partly as a
result of developments in the economy, but also because customers, legislators and regulators
require it. This trend is expected to continue in 2018.
Aegon wholesale operates in a changing environment: the labor market changes rapidly, people
are living longer, the interest rates remain low and employers and employees demand more
flexibility. Aegon wholesale is committed to a sustainable future-proof pension system that provides
adequate pensions for all participants in the labor market. Aegon is well and broadly positioned in
the pension market with administration (TKP), PPIs and Insurance to meet our customer
expectations. We continue to invest in new solutions for employers and employees, are an opinion
leader and actively involved in public discussions about retirement with all stakeholders.
The strong recovery of the housing market impacts the mortgage market, and will continue to drive
increased demand for mortgage products. Disintermediation and new forms of advice on financial
products and services are expected to develop and change further in 2018, driving the shift towards
cross-channel solutions.
As we have stressed in recent years, technological developments and the digitization of financial
services are accelerating. The traditional financial institutions are starting to transform their
businesses towards a new era. Addressing these developments is at the core of our strategy.
Finally, economic conditions, the situation in the financial markets and the shrinking insurance
market are driving an increased focused on cost efficiency in our markets. All these trends
combined require Aegon Nederland to deliver enhanced performance for all our stakeholders at
reduced expense levels.

Post reporting date events and expectations
There are no significant post reporting date events and expectations that have not already been
taken into account in the directors’ report or financial statements.

Page 37 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

The Hague, 30 April, 2018
The Board of Directors,

M.J. Edixhoven

R. Zomer

I.M.A. de Graaf – de Swart

W.A. Hekstra

W. Horstmann

Page 38 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Report of the Supervisory Board
1.

General

The Supervisory Board consisted of four members in 2017. The Supervisory Board of Aegon
Nederland, currently consists of five members and has the duty to supervise and advise the Board
of Directors on its management of the company. The Supervisory Board functions as the
supervisory board for Aegon Nederland N.V. and each of the insurance subsidiaries of Aegon
Nederland N.V. that are under supervision of De Nederlandsche Bank, i.e. Aegon
Levensverzekering, Aegon Schadeverzekering, Aegon Spaarkas and Optas Pensioenen. These
Supervisory Boards meet at least four times a year at regular intervals, simultaneously with the
Supervisory Board of Aegon Nederland N.V.
The Supervisory Board was involved in the preparation of appointments and dismissals of members
of the Board of Directors and discusses the company’s quarterly results, accounting policies,
internal control procedures and strategy. The Supervisory Board is involved in setting the
remuneration of members of the Board of Directors, senior management and employees of the
company. Among others, the Supervisory Board approves the general principles of the Aegon
Nederland remuneration policies, periodically assesses the general principles of the remuneration
policy and is responsible for the remuneration policy for the Board of Directors.
In 2017, the Supervisory Board performed its duties in close co-operation with the Board of
Directors and held six meetings. The Risk and Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board held five
meetings. Also the Remuneration Committee held several meetings. The attendance percentage
was very high.
The quarterly reports and figures for Q4 2016 and Q1, Q2 and Q3 2017 and the Budget and
Medium-term Plan for 2018-2020 were discussed during the regular meetings held in February,
May, August and November 2017, respectively.
The regulated entities Aegon Bank and Aegon PPI have separate Supervisory Boards.

Page 39 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2.

Subjects discussed during the meetings

During the meetings of the Supervisory Board, the Risk and Audit Committee of the Supervisory
Board and the Remuneration Committee, several topics were discussed. Hereafter a list of topics
is presented. Regarding some topics a brief explanation is provided.


























Aegon NL In Control Program. The contents of and progress on the In Control Program was
discussed and monitored by the Supervisory Board on several board meetings. This included
discussions on the Aegon Core values, Aegon Dashboard, Incident Analysis and Chain
orchestration. The Supervisory Board was also regularly updated on relevant discussions with
DNB
Sale of Unirobe Meeùs Group to Aon. The Supervisory Board was regularly updated on the sale
and was closely involved in the decision making process
Solvency II updates and discussions in general, regarding (inter alia) developments in the
Solvency ratio and LAC DT
Initiatives and discussions on strengthening the Solvency II capital of Aegon Levensverzekering
N.V. The Supervisory Board discussed this extensively with the Board of Directors and closely
monitored the decision making process and execution of the initiatives
Reorganization of the Finance department
Quarterly business results. Each quarter the Supervisory Board was updated on and discussed
the business results of (inter alia) Aegon Retail and Aegon Wholesale in the context of the Future
Fit Strategy. This also included updates and discussions on several key programs
Alternative asset strategy and Transition Plan for Aegon Levensverzekering. On several
occasions the Supervisory Board was informed on the strategy to optimize the balance sheet,
the details and execution of the transition plan and the relevant risks
Capital Management Policy
Dividend proposals
DNB ‘Focus’ reports and meeting and AFM annual report and meeting
Execution of the Future Fit Strategy and new strategic developments, including possible M&A
initiatives
SB self-evaluation (board effectiveness). The Supervisory Board evaluated its own functioning,
this year under the external supervision of KPMG. The results were satisfactory and were
discussed by the Supervisory Board and with the Board of Directors and where necessary,
actions were taken
PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. Management Letter 2016. A topic of discussion and
monitoring concerned the outstanding actions. The Supervisory Board
Annual report 2016
Customer NPS
Changes within Aegon NL organization and management, which (inter alia) included (the
rationale, benefits and consequences for personnel of) changes within the Aegon Retail and
Aegon Wholesale business
Cost efficiency developments
Budget MTP 2018-2020
Updates on DNB and AFM letters, discussions and on sites. Members of the Supervisory Board
met with DNB on two occasions

Page 40 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

3.

Gender diversity (article 2:166 Dutch Civil Code)

Enhancing gender diversity in the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board is an important issue
for Aegon Nederland. Selection and appointment is based on expertise, skills and relevant
experience. The Supervisory Board also takes gender diversity into account in view of its aim of
having a balanced Board of Directors composition. Mrs. D. Jansen Heijtmajer joined the Supervisory
Board on August 4, 2016. The Supervisory Board is aware that its current composition does not
meet the 'balanced composition' requirement under Dutch law (at least 30% of the seats should
be filled by women and at least 30% by men). When identifying candidates for open positions, the
Board actively searches for suitable female candidates. It also instructs external search firms to
present female candidates. While this has had a positive effect, the requirement has not yet been
met.

4.

Risk and Audit Committee

The Supervisory Board has formed a Risk and Audit Committee, whose members in 2017 were Mrs.
Jansen Heijtmajer (chair) and Mr. Vink. In 2017, the Audit and Risk Committee met five times. The
CEO, CFO and CRO (Mr. Edixhoven, Mr. Zomer and Mr Horstmann) attended meetings on behalf of
Aegon Nederland, along with the internal independent Auditor, and managers of Capital
Management, Financial Information Management & Reporting Office and the Actuarial and
Compliance function holders (or their substitutes). On behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers
Accountants N.V., Mr. Rondhout and Mr. Vermeulen both attended quarterly meetings.
On the agenda for the regular quarterly meetings, standing items were (i) the financial results of
the previous quarter, quarterly reports on (ii) capital management, and (iii) regulatory
developments, supplemented with quarterly reports from (iv) Risk Management & Compliance, and
(v) Internal Audit, and the PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. quarterly reports. The Risk
and Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board approved the audit plans of both Internal Audit
and PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V., and discussed the Aegon Nederland Risk Appetite.
Other topics discussed during 2017 included among others the annual reports, RSR, SFCR reports,
developments related to Solvency II, Actuarial Function Holder Report, SOx controls and the
Management Letter. The Risk and Audit Committee reported – partly through the minutes of its
meetings – on its findings to the Supervisory Board.

5.

Remuneration Committee

The Remuneration Committee, whose members are Mr. Vink and Mr. Terpstra, convened in March
2017. In its meeting, the Committee and also the Supervisory Board approved the 2017 Addendum
to the Aegon Group Global Remuneration Framework (AGGRF) and the 2017 Aegon NL variable
compensation Key Performance Indicators (KPI’s). Also the pay-out of deferred 2013-2015 variable
compensation to Identified Staff and the performance and allocation of the variable compensation
2016 for Identified Staff were discussed and approved.

Page 41 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

6. Members of the Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board consisted of four members in 2017. Mr. G.T. Kepecs was reappointed in
2017 for another term of 4 years. A fifth member, D. Jacobovits de Szeged, was appointed as per
January 1, 2018.
The terms of office of the supervisory board members are as follows:
Year of first appointment

(Re-) Appointment

Resigns

J.A.J. Vink

2006

May 8, 2015

2018

D. Jansen Heijtmajer

2016

August 4, 2016

2020

D. Terpstra

2007

September 15, 2016

2019

G.T. Kepecs

2012

June 30, 2017

2021

January 1, 2018

2022

D. Jacobovits de Szeged 2018

Page 42 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

The Hague, 30 April, 2018
The Supervisory Board,

J.A.J. Vink

D. Jansen Heijtmajer

D. Terpstra

G.T. Kepecs

D. Jacobovits de Szeged

Page 43 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Consolidated financial statements 2017 of Aegon Nederland N.V.

Page 44 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Consolidated statement of financial position

Note

31-12-

31-12-

2017

2016

Amounts in EUR million
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents

5

8.386

7.406

Investments

6

54.367

54.332

Investments for account of policyholders

7

23.574

25.292

Derivatives

8

4.177

5.384

Investments in associates

9

74

21

Investments in joint ventures

10

1.008

877

Borrowings and group loans

11

490

511

Reinsurance assets

12

16

21

Deferred expenses

13

76

84

Other assets and receivables

14

2.105

1.909

Intangible assets

15

35

60

94.309

95.896

5.487

Total assets

Equity and liabilities
Shareholders' equity

16

6.851

Non-controlling interests

16

10

8

6.861

5.495

Group equity

Insurance contracts

17

34.382

34.904

Insurance contracts for account of policyholders

18

25.587

26.275

Savings deposits

20

9.568

8.814

Investment contracts

21

219

229

Investment contracts for account of policyholders

22

133

466

8

5.640

6.280

Borrowings and group loans

23

6.582

7.118

Provisions

24

39

72

Defined benefit liabilities

25

2.693

3.188

Deferred tax liabilities

26

212

284

Other liabilities and accruals

27

2.393

2.771

Total liabilities

87.449

90.401

Total equity and liabilities

94.309

95.896

Derivatives

Page 45 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Consolidated income statement
(ending 31 December 2017)

Note

2017

2016

Amounts in EUR million
Revenues
Premium income

28

2.205

2.488

Investment income

29

2.173

2.134

Fee and commission income

30

329

353

4.707

4.974

Total revenues
Income from reinsurance ceded

9

-1

Results from financial transactions

31

-38

2.268

Other income

32

208

12

4.886

7.254

Total income

Charges
Premiums to reinsurers

28

16

13

Policyholder claims and benefits

33

2.968

5.398

Profit sharing

34

13

40

Commissions and expenses

35

938

981

Impairment charges / (reversals)

36

17

12

Interest charges and related fees

37

168

191

4.121

6.636

765

618

Total charges

Income before share in profit / (loss) of joint
ventures and associates and tax
Share in profit / (loss) of associates

4

2

126

106

895

726

-168

-156

Net income / (loss)

727

570

Net income / (loss) attributable to the parent

727

570

Share in profit / (loss) of joint ventures

9
10

Income / (loss) before tax
Income tax

39

company

Page 46 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
(ending 31 December 2017)

Note

2017

2016

Amounts in EUR million
Net income

727

570

1

-

Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Changes in revaluation reserve real estate held for

14.1

own use
Remeasurement of defined benefit plans

25

146

-328

Income tax relating to items that will not be

26

-37

82

Gains / (losses) on revaluation of available-for-sale investments

6.1

-398

-208

Equity movements of joint ventures

10

-

2

-2

-1

reclassified
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss:

Equity movements of associates

9

Gains / (losses) transferred to the income statement on disposal and
impairment of available-for-sale investments

6.1

-184

-189

Income tax relating to items that may be reclassified

26

139

62

-28

-

-363

-579

Total comprehensive income / (loss)

364

-9

Total comprehensive income attributable to the parent

364

-9

Other
Total other comprehensive income for the
period

company

Total comprehensive income is fully attributable to Aegon N.V., the parent company of Aegon
Nederland.

Page 47 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Consolidated statement of changes in equity

Amounts in EUR million

2017
Share

Share

Revaluation

Retained

Shareholders'

Non-

Group

controlling
capital
At January 1

premium

24

645

reserves

earnings

equity

1.716

3.103

interests

5.487

equity

8

5.495

Net income / (loss) recognized in the income statement

-

-

-

727

727

727

Other comprehensive income / (loss)

-

-

-472

108

-363

-363

Total comprehensive income / (loss)

-

-

-472

835

364

Addition to share premium

-

1.000

-

-

1.000

Other movements
At December 31

24

1.645

1.244

3.939

-

364
1.000

-

2

2

6.851

10

6.861

Page 48 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2016
Share

Share

Revaluation

Retained

Shareholders'

Non-

Group

controlling
capital
At January 1

premium

24

645

reserves

earnings

2.051

2.777

equity

interests

5.496

equity
-

5.496

Net income / (loss) recognized in the income statement

-

-

-

570

570

570

Other comprehensive income / (loss)

-

-

-335

-244

-579

-579

Total comprehensive income / (loss)

-

-

-335

326

-9

-

-9

-

8

8

5.487

8

5.495

Other movements
At December 31

24

645

1.716

3.103

Refer to the disclosure for capital restrictions included in the statutory financial statements in note 8.2 ‘Statement of changes in equity’.

Page 49 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Consolidated cash flow statement
(ending 31 December 2017)

Amounts in EUR million

Note

Income / (loss) before tax

2017

2016

895

726

Results from financial transactions

31

38

-2.268

Amortization and depreciation

35

98

108

Impairment losses / (reversals)

36

16

12

Income from joint ventures

10

-126

-106

Income from associates

-4

-2

Other

9

17

-4

Adjustments of non-cash items

39

-2.261

Insurance and investment liabilities

17/21

-527

2.170

Insurance and investment liabilities for account of

18/22

-1.463

630

policyholders
Defined benefit liabilities

25

39

116

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

27

-177

585

Accrued income and prepayments

14

-275

834

142

-1.567

-2.261

2.768

6

-10.356

-6.480

Purchase of derivatives

8

1.422

417

Disposal of investments (other than money market

6

9.280

6.864

Disposal of derivatives

8

-1.779

-41

Net purchase of investments for account of

7

2.797

627

Shadow accounting
Changes in accruals
Purchase of investments (other than money market
investments)

investments)

policyholders
Additions of group loans

11

-64

-4

Redemption of group loans

11

85

57

Net change in cash collateral

27

138

-685

1.523

756

-215

45

Cash flow movements on operating items not
reflected in income
Tax (paid) / received
Sale UMG
Other
Net cash flows from operating activities

39

-208

-

30

-3

-197

2.031

Page 50 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Note

Purchase of individual intangible assets (other than

2017

15

2016

-26

-6

VOBA and future servicing rights)
Purchase of equipment and real estate for own use
Acquisition of subsidiaries, joint ventures and

14
9/10

-17

-16

-109

-33

associates, net of cash
Disposal of equipment and real estate for own use

14

1

1

Disposal of subsidiaries, joint ventures and

32

172

3

51

97

72

47

associates, net of cash
Dividend received from joint ventures and associates

9/10

Net cash flows from investing activities

Additions of borrowings

23

1.312

627

Redemption of borrowings

23

-1.405

-2.929

Additions of group loans

23

250

20

Redemption of group loans

23

-687

-

Additions of entrusted savings

20

7.748

6.490

Redemption of entrusted savings

20

-6.993

-4.776

Addition to share premium

16

1.000

-

Issuances and repurchases subordinated perpetual

16

2

8

42

-122

-324

1.105

-886

980

1.193

5

7.406

6.213

5

8.386

7.405

liabilities (participations)
Net change in repurchase agreements
Net cash flows from financing activities

Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash
equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the
year
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the
year

The cash flow statement is prepared according to the indirect method. Included in the net cash
flows from operating activities is the increase/ (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents related to:

2017
Interest received (excluding derivatives)

2016

1.945

2.097

Interest paid (excluding derivatives)

136

225

Interest derivatives received / (paid)

-5

-120

210

203

Dividend received

Page 51 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities
For both 2017 and 2016 the net cash flows from financing activities relate only to the increase or
decrease in long-term borrowings, group loans, entrusted savings, repurchase agreements and
share premium payments. During the year no changes occurred due to obtaining or losing control
from subsidiaries. There was no effect from foreign currencies, as all financing activities take place
in EUR. Furthermore the carrying value of all balance sheet items related to financing activities are
measured at amortized cost, therefore there are no effects from fair value movements or any other
movements. No dividends were paid to the parent company.

Page 52 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
1.

General information

Aegon Nederland N.V., incorporated and domiciled in the Netherlands, is a public limited liability
company organized under Dutch law and recorded in the Trade Register of the Chamber of
Commerce in The Hague with its registered address at Aegonplein 50, 2591 TV, The Hague with
registration number KvK 27111251. Aegon Nederland N.V. (‘Aegon Nederland’) is wholly owned
subsidiary of Aegon Europe Holding B.V. in The Hague. Aegon N.V., also domiciled in The Hague is
the ultimate parent of the group.
Aegon Nederland (or ‘the Company’) and its subsidiaries (‘Aegon’ or ‘the Group’) are active in life
insurance and pensions operations, savings and investment products, asset management
operations, accident and health insurance, general insurance, banking operations, mortgages,
pension administration and intermediary activities.

2.

Summary of significant accounting policies
Basis of presentation

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the European Union (IFRS-EU) and with Part 9 of
Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the historical cost
convention as modified by the revaluation of investment properties and those financial instruments
(including derivatives) and financial liabilities that have been measured at fair value. Information
on the standards and interpretations that were adopted in 2017 is provided below in note 2.1.1
‘Adoption of new IFRS EU accounting standards’.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in euro and all amounts are rounded to the
nearest million unless otherwise stated. The consequence is that the rounded amounts may not
add up to the rounded total in all cases. All ratios and variances are calculated using the underlying
amount rather than the rounded amount. Certain amounts in prior years have been reclassified to
comply with the current year presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on net income,
shareholders' equity or earnings per share.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS-EU requires management to make
estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date
of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the reporting
period. Those estimates are inherently subject to change and actual results could differ from those
estimates. Included among the material (or potentially material) reported amounts and disclosures
that require extensive use of estimates are: fair value of certain invested assets and derivatives,
deferred policy acquisition costs, value of business acquired and other purchased intangible assets,
goodwill, policyholders claims and benefits, insurance guarantees, pension plans, corporate income
taxes and the potential effects of resolving litigation matters. Aegon Nederland applies fair value
hedge accounting for portfolio hedges of interest rate risk (macro hedging) under the European
Union (EU) ‘carve out’ of IFRS. Details are provided in note 2.8 ‘Derivatives’ and note 8
‘Derivatives’.
The consolidated financial statements of Aegon Nederland were approved by the Board of Directors
and by the Supervisory Board on April 30, 2018. The financial statements will be put for adoption
to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on April 30, 2018. The shareholders meeting can
decide against adoption of the financial statements but cannot amend them.
Page 53 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2.1.1. Adoption of new IFRS-EU accounting standards
New standards and amendments to standards become effective at the date specified by IFRS-EU,
but may allow companies to opt for an earlier adoption date. In 2017, the following amendments
to existing standards issued by the IASB became mandatory, but are not currently relevant or do
not significantly impact the financial position or financial statements:

Accounting standard/ amendment/

IASB

Endorsed by

Impact for

interpretation

effective date

EU

Aegon

IAS 7 Amendment Disclosure initiative

January 1,

Yes

Low

Yes

Low

Yes

Low

2017
IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for

January 1,

Unrealized Losses

2017

Annual improvements 2014-2016 Cycle 'IFRS 12

January 1,

Disclosure of interests in other entities'

2017

2.1.2. Future adoption of new IFRS-EU accounting standards
The following standards and amendments to existing standards, published prior to January 1, 2018,
were not early adopted by Aegon Nederland, but will be applied in future years:

Accounting standard/ amendment/

IASB effective date

interpretation

Endorsed

Impact for

by EU

Aegon

Yes

See below

IFRS 9 Financial instruments, including the

January 1, 2021 (This is the

separate amendment applying IFRS 9

effective date of the

for

Financial instruments with IFRS 4

amendment; Aegon intends to

comments

Insurance contracts

make use of the amendment)

IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with

January 1, 2018

Yes

Customers, including Clarifications to IFRS

for

15 as issued in 2016
IFRS 16 leases

See below
comments

January 1, 2019

Yes

See below
for
comments

IFRS 17 Insurance contract

January 1, 2021

Not yet

See below
for
comments

Annual improvements 2014-2016 'IFRS 1,

January 1, 2018

Yes

Low

January 1, 2018

Yes

Low

January 1, 2018

Not yet

Low

January 1, 2018

Not yet

Low

January 1, 2019

Not yet

Low

'First time adoption of IFRS', regarding
IFRS 7, IAS 19 and IFRS 10, IAS 28
Investments in associates and joint
ventures
IFRS 2 Clarifications of Classification and
Measurement of Share Based Payments
Transactions
IAS 40 Investment property, amendments
regarding the transfer of property
IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transactions and
advance consideration
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Tax Treatments

Page 54 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
The IASB issued the complete version of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments in July 2014 which was
endorsed by the European Union in November 2016. IFRS 9 combines classification and
measurement, the expected credit loss impairment model and hedge accounting. The standard will
replace IAS 39 and all previous versions of IFRS 9. Under IFRS 9 Classification and Measurement,
financial assets are measured at amortized cost, fair value through profit or loss or fair value
through other comprehensive income, based on both the entity’s business model for managing the
financial assets and the financial asset’s contractual cash flow characteristics. The classification and
measurement of financial liabilities is unchanged from existing requirements apart from own credit
risk. For financial liabilities that are designated at fair value through profit or loss, the changes
which are attributable to the change in an entity’s own credit risk are presented in other
comprehensive income, unless doing so would enlarge or create an accounting mismatch. For the
impairment component, the IASB included requirements for a credit loss allowance or provision
which should be based on expected losses rather than incurred losses.
Application of IFRS 9 is required for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. However,
on May 18, 2017, the IASB published the final version of the IFRS 17 – Insurance Contracts
standard. Prior to its finalization, the IASB issued an amendment to IFRS 4 – Insurance Contracts
(the predecessor standard to IFRS 17) that provides for a qualifying insurer a temporary exemption
that permits, but does not require, the insurer to apply IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition
and Measurement rather than IFRS 9 for annual periods beginning before January 1, 2021 (i.e., a
temporary exemption of IFRS 9). The objective of the amendment is to address the temporary
accounting consequences of the different effective dates of IFRS 9 and IFRS 17. This amendment
was endorsed by the European Union in November 2017.
In order for an entity to be eligible for the temporary exemption it must have liabilities connected
with insurance activities whose carrying value comprises either greater than 90% of the total
carrying value of all liabilities or less than or equal to 90% but greater than 80%, and the insurer
does not have significant activities unrelated to insurance. Aegon Nederland performed this
analysis, and determined that 84% of its liabilities are connected to insurance activities. The 16%
non-insurance activity related liabilities are mainly caused by the banking activities of subsidiary
Aegon Bank N.V. and mortgage activities of subsidiary Aegon Hypotheken B.V. As a consequence
Aegon Nederland assessed other quantitative (%equity, %net income, %employees) and
qualitative factors (such as that the regulatory status of parent company is insurer and falls under
insurance supervision of DNB). Based on that assessment Aegon Nederland concluded that it meets
the requirements for the temporary exception. As a result, Aegon Nederland will not implement
IFRS 9 until January 1, 2021.
As Aegon Nederland intends to defer the application of IFRS 9 until 2021, the full impact of the
standard is not yet clear, however an initial impact assessment resulted in the expectation that it
will have a significant impact on shareholders' equity, income and/or other comprehensive income
and disclosures. An implementation project has started in 2017 and will be combined with the
implementation of IFRS17 Insurance Contracts.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. This new standard
was endorsed by the European Union in September 2016. IFRS 15 has replaced IAS 18 Revenue,
as well as other IFRIC and SIC interpretations regarding revenue unless the contracts are within
the scope of other standards (for example, financial instruments, insurance contracts or lease
contracts). The standard outlines the principles an entity shall apply to measure and recognize
revenue and the related cash flows. The core principle is that an entity will recognize revenue at
an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for
transferring goods or services to a customer. In April 2016, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS
15 to address several implementation issues discussed by the Transition Resource Group (TRG).
Page 55 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

The amendments are intended to clarify the requirements in IFRS 15, not to change the standard.
IFRS 15 and the amendments will be effective for Aegon Nederland on January 1, 2018, using
either of two methods: a full retrospective approach with certain practical expedients or a modified
retrospective approach with the cumulative effect of initially applying this standard recognized at
the date of initial application with certain additional disclosures. Aegon Nederland has evaluated
the impact that adoption of this standard is expected to have on the financial statements and came
to the conclusion that this impact will be very limited because insurance revenue is not in scope of
IFRS 15 and because the other types of revenue are already compliant with this standard. Since
IFRS 15 will have very limited impact on the financial statements, Aegon Nederland chose to apply
the modified retrospective approach as transition method.
IFRS 16 Leases
IFRS 16 Leases which replaces IAS 17 has been issued by the IASB In January 2016 and endorsed
by the European Union in October 2017. It will be mandatorily effective for annual reporting periods
beginning on or after January 1, 2019. IFRS 16 introduces a single lessee accounting model and
requires a lessee to recognize assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12
months, unless the underlying asset is of low value. A lessee is required to recognize a right-ofuse asset representing its right to use the underlying leased asset and a lease liability representing
its obligation to make lease payments. IFRS 16 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting
requirements in IAS 17. Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify its leases as operating leases or
finance leases, and to account for those two types of leases differently. Aegon Nederland is
evaluating the impact that adoption of this Standard is expected to have on the financial
statements.
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts
The IASB issued IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts in May 2017. The Standard will replace IFRS 4, which
was intended as an interim solution and allowed insurers to continue to use accounting principles
that they had applied prior to the initial adoption of IFRS. IFRS 17 establishes principles for the
recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of insurance contracts issued, reinsurance
contracts held and investment contracts with discretionary participating features issued. The
objective of the Standard is to ensure that entities provide relevant information in a way that
faithfully represents those contracts. This information should provide users of financial statements
with a basis to assess the effects that the contracts have on the financial position, financial
performance and cash flows of the insurer. The Standard also specifies presentation and disclosure
requirements to enhance comparability between insurance companies.
IFRS 17 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021. The Standard
represents a fundamental change to current financial reporting and the implementation effort is
expected to be significant. Early adoption of the standard is therefore not expected. An
implementation project was started soon after the publication of the new Standard. Currently no
choices have been made as to the accounting policy options provided in IFRS 17, however, it is
expected that the impact of the initial application on Aegon Nederland’s financial statements is
significant.

Page 56 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Basis of consolidation
2.2.1. Investment funds
Investment funds managed by Aegon Nederland in which Aegon Nederland holds an interest are
consolidated in the financial statements if Aegon Nederland has power over that investment fund
and it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has
the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. In assessing control, all
interests held by Aegon Nederland in the fund are considered, regardless of whether the financial
risk related to the investment is borne by Aegon Nederland or by the policyholders.
In determining whether Aegon Nederland has power over an investment fund, all facts and
circumstances have to be considered, including the following:

Is the asset manager (key decision maker) external or internal (i.e. whether an Aegon
Nederland subsidiary);

The investment constraints posed by investment mandate;

Legal rights held by the policyholder to the separate assets in the investment vehicle (e.g.
policyholders could have the voting rights related to these investments);

The governance structure, such as an independent board of directors, representing the
policyholders, which has substantive rights (e.g. to elect or remove the asset manager (key
decision maker)); and

Rights held by other parties (e.g. voting rights of policyholders that are substantive or not).
Exposure or rights to variability of returns can be the result of, (for example):

General account investments of Aegon Nederland;

Aegon Nederland’s investments held for policyholders;

Guarantees provided by Aegon Nederland on return of policyholders in specific investment
vehicles;

Fees dependent on fund value (including, but not limited to, asset management fees); and

Fees dependent on performance of the fund (including, but not limited to, performance
fees).
Aegon Nederland concluded, for all investment funds, that it does not exercise control, as Aegon
Nederland has no power over the asset manager (key decision maker).
Participations in investment funds held for general account are recognized as equity investments.
Some of these investments in venture capital entities, mutual funds and investment funds are
managed on the basis of market value and accounted for as financial assets at fair value through
profit or loss. Participations in investment funds that are measured using the equity method are
regarded as part of the investment portfolio. The income from these investment funds is recognized
as investment income.
Participations in investment funds held for account of policyholders are accounted for as
‘investments for account of policyholder’ and measured at Fair Value Through profit or loss.
Reference is made to 2.7 Investments for account of policyholders.

2.2.2. Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Aegon Nederland and its
subsidiaries. Subsidiaries (including structured entities) are entities over which Aegon Nederland
has control. Aegon Nederland controls an entity when Aegon Nederland is exposed to, or has rights
to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns
through its power over the entity.

Page 57 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

The assessment of control is based on the substance of the relationship between Aegon Nederland
and the entity and, among other things, considers existing and potential voting rights that are
substantive. For a right to be substantive, the holder must have the practical ability to exercise
that right.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. The
subsidiary’s assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at fair value on the acquisition
date and are subsequently accounted for in accordance with the accounting principles of Aegon
Nederland, which is consistent with IFRS. Transactions between group companies are eliminated.
Intra-group losses may indicate an impairment that requires recognition in the consolidated
financial statements. Non-controlling interests are initially stated at their share in the fair value of
the net assets on the acquisition date and subsequently adjusted for the non-controlling share in
changes in the subsidiary’s equity.
The excess of the consideration paid to acquire the interest and the fair value of any interest
already owned, over the share of Aegon Nederland in the net fair value of assets, liabilities and
contingent liabilities acquired is recognized as goodwill. Negative goodwill is recognized directly in
the income statement. If the fair values of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, acquired
in the business combination, have been determined provisionally, adjustments to these values,
resulting from the emergence of new evidence within twelve months after the acquisition date, are
recorded against goodwill. Aegon Nederland recognizes contingent considerations either as
provision or as financial liability depending on the characteristics. Contingent considerations
recognized as provisions are discounted and the unwinding is recognized in the income statement
as an interest expense. Any changes in the estimated value of contingent consideration given in a
business combination are recognized in the income statement. Contingent considerations
recognized as financial liabilities are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are stated at fair value at the moment
control is obtained.
Subsidiaries are deconsolidated when control ceases to exist. Any difference between the net
proceeds plus the fair value of any retained interest and the carrying amount of the subsidiary
including non-controlling interests is recognized in the income statement.

2.2.3. Structured entities
A structured entity is defined in IFRS 12 as “An entity that has been designed so that voting rights
are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity, such as when any voting rights
relate to administrative tasks only and the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual
arrangements.” In these instances the tests and indicators to assess control provided by IFRS 10
have more focus on the purpose and design of the investee (with relation to the relevant activities
that most significantly affect the structured entity) and the exposure to variable returns, which for
structured entities lies in interests through i.e. derivatives, and will not be focused on entities that
are controlled by voting rights.
Structured entities that are consolidated include certain mortgage backed securitization deals,
where Aegon Nederland was involved in the design of the structured entities and also has the ability
to use its power to affect the amount of the investee’s returns. Other factors that contributed to
the conclusion that consolidation of these entities was required include that fact that Aegon
Nederland fully services the investees and can therefore influence the defaults of the mortgage
portfolios and the fact that in these cases the majority of risks are maintained by Aegon Nederland.
Structured entities that are not consolidated include general account investments in non-affiliated
structured entities that are used for investment purposes.

Page 58 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Foreign exchange translation
Aegon Nederland’s financial statements are presented in euro, which is Aegon Nederland’s
functional currency. Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional
currency rate prevailing at the date of the transaction. Aegon Nederland does not have investments
in subsidiaries of which the functional currency is not the euro.
At the balance sheet date, monetary assets and monetary liabilities in foreign currencies and equity
instruments in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the closing rate of
exchange prevailing on that date. Non-monetary items carried at cost are translated using the
exchange rate at the date of the transaction, while assets carried at fair value are translated at the
exchange rate when the fair value was determined.
Exchange differences on monetary items are recognized in the income statement when they arise,
except when they are deferred in other comprehensive income as a result of a qualifying cash flow.
Exchange differences on non-monetary items carried at fair value are recognized in other
comprehensive income or the income statement, consistently with other gains and losses on these
items.
The impact of foreign currency on the financial statements is considered immaterial as virtually all
transactions take place in euro.

Offsetting of assets and liabilities
Financial assets and liabilities are offset in the statement of financial position when Aegon
Nederland has a current legally enforceable right to offset and has the intention to settle the asset
and liability on a net basis or simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must not be contingent
on future events and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of
default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the company or the counterpart.

Cash and cash equivalents
Cash comprises cash at banks and in-hand. Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid
investments with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to known
cash amounts, are subject to insignificant risks of changes in value and are held for the purpose of
meeting short-term cash requirements. Money market investments that are held for investment
purposes (backing insurance liabilities, investment liabilities or equity based on asset liability
management considerations) are not included in cash and cash equivalents but are presented as
investments or investments for account of policyholders.

Investments
General account investments comprise financial assets, excluding derivatives as well as
investments in real estate.

2.6.1. Financial assets, excluding derivatives
Financial assets, excluding derivatives are recognized on the trade date when Aegon Nederland
becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument and are classified for accounting
purposes depending on the characteristics of the instruments and the purpose for which they were
purchased.

Page 59 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Classification
The following financial assets are measured at fair value through profit or loss: financial assets held
for trading, financial assets managed on a fair value basis in accordance with the investment
strategy of Aegon Nederland; and financial assets containing an embedded derivative that is not
closely related and that cannot be reliably bifurcated. In addition, in certain instances Aegon
Nederland designates financial assets to this category when by doing so a potential accounting
mismatch in the financial statements is eliminated or significantly reduced.
Financial assets with fixed or determinable payments, that are not quoted in an active market and
that Aegon Nederland does not intend to sell in the near future are classified as loans. Those for
which the holder may not recover substantially all of its initial investment, other than because of
credit deterioration, are accounted for as available-for-sale.
All remaining non-derivative financial assets are classified as available-for-sale.

Measurement
Financial assets are initially recognized at fair value excluding interest accrued to date plus, in the
case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss, any directly attributable incremental
transaction costs.
Loans and financial assets held-to-maturity are subsequently carried at amortized cost using the
effective interest rate method. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are measured at
fair value with all changes in fair value recognized in the income statement as incurred. Availablefor-sale assets are recorded at fair value with unrealized changes in fair value recognized in other
comprehensive income. Financial assets that are designated as hedged items are measured in
accordance with the requirements for hedge accounting.

Amortized cost
The amortized cost of a debt instrument is the amount at which it is measured at initial recognition
minus principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative amortization of any difference between
the initial amount and the maturity amount and minus any reduction for impairment. The effective
interest rate method is a method of calculating the amortized cost and of allocating the interest
income or expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly
discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the debt
instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount of the instrument.
When calculating the effective interest rate, all contractual terms are considered. Possible future
credit losses are not taken into account. Charges and interest paid or received between parties to
the contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other
premiums or discounts are included in the calculation.

Fair value
The financial statements provide information on the fair value of all financial assets, including those
carried at amortized cost where the fair values are provided in the notes to the financial statements.
Fair value is defined as the amount that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date
under current market conditions (i.e. an exit price at the measurement date from the perspective
of a market participant that holds the asset or owes the liability). For quoted financial assets for
which there is an active market, the fair value is the bid price at the balance sheet date. In the
absence of an active market, fair value is estimated by using present value based or other valuation
techniques. Where discounting techniques are applied, the discount rate is based on current market
rates applicable to financial instruments with similar characteristics.

Page 60 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

The valuation techniques that include unobservable inputs can result in a different outcome than
the actual transaction price at which the asset was acquired. Such differences are not recognized
in the income statement immediately but are deferred. They are released over time to the income
statement in line with the change in factors (including time) that market participants would
consider in setting a price for the asset. Interest accrued to date is not included in the fair value of
the financial asset.

Derecognition
A financial asset is derecognized when the contractual rights to the asset’s cash flows expire and
when Aegon Nederland retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset or has an obligation
to pay received cash flows in full without delay to a third party and either has transferred the asset
and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, or has neither transferred nor retained all
the risks and rewards but has transferred control of the asset.
Financial assets of which Aegon Nederland has neither transferred nor retained significantly all the
risk and rewards are recognized to the extent of the Aegon Nederland’s continuing involvement. If
significantly all risks are retained, the assets are not derecognized.
On derecognition, the difference between the disposal proceeds and the carrying amount is
recognized in the income statement as a realized gain or loss. Any cumulative unrealized gain or
loss previously recognized in the revaluation reserve in shareholders’ equity is also recognized in
the income statement.

Securities lending and repurchase agreements
Financial assets that are lent to a third party or that are transferred subject to a repurchase
agreement at a fixed price are not derecognized as Aegon Nederland retains substantially all the
risks and rewards of the asset. A liability is recognized for cash (collateral) received, on which
interest is accrued.
A security that has been received under a borrowing or reverse repurchase agreement is not
recognized as an asset. A receivable is recognized for any related cash (collateral) paid by Aegon
Nederland. The difference between sale and repurchase price is treated as investment income. If
Aegon Nederland subsequently sells that security, a liability to repurchase the asset is recognized
and initially measured at fair value.

Collateral
With the exception of cash collateral, assets received as collateral are not separately recognized as
an asset until the financial asset they secure defaults. When cash collateral is recognized, a liability
is recorded for the same amount.

2.6.2. Real estate
Investments in real estate include property held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation, or both.
Investments in real estate are presented as investments. Property that is occupied by Aegon
Nederland and that is not intended to be sold in the near future is classified as real estate held for
own use and is presented in 'Other assets and receivables.'
All property is initially recognized at cost. Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the real
estate and borrowing cost for long-term construction projects if recognition criteria are met.
Subsequently, investments in real estate are measured at fair value with the changes in fair value
recognized in the income statement. Real estate held for own use is carried at its revalued amount,
which is the fair value at the date of revaluation less subsequent accumulated depreciation and
impairment losses. Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis over the useful life of a
building. Land is not depreciated.

Page 61 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

On revaluation the accumulated depreciation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of
the asset and the net amount is restated to the revalued amount. On disposal of an asset, the
difference between the net proceeds received and the carrying amount is recognized in the income
statement. Any remaining surplus attributable to real estate in own use in the revaluation reserve
is transferred to retained earnings.
Investment property is revalued periodically by external valuators. Appraisals are based on market
guidelines such as International Valuation Standards, Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal
Practice or guidelines issued by the Investment Property Databank. All investment property is
revalued at least once a year.
When (re)appraising investment property, the valuator takes market developments into account,
both at the macroeconomic and microeconomic level, which have an impact on the value of the
property, such as recent and expected general economic developments, the relation between
supply and demand (national and local) for the property category and the development of rents
and gross initial yields.
There are three levels of valuation used by Aegon Nederland:
a. Full valuation - at least every three years: an opinion of a valuator based on all possible
value drivers and market conditions at a specific date. The object will be visited and also
the value-determining factors are considered. Value drivers in a full valuation include
market information, legal and constructional information.
b. Reappraisal - every year: a recalculation of the, at an earlier time performed, full valuation.
The same factors are considered, but less extensive. The object will be visited and also the
value-determining factors are considered. For legal information and constructive
information, however, only changes are considered with respect to the situation at the time
of full valuation.
c. Market technical update - quarterly. A reappraisal of the value of the investment property
is conducted using a desktop valuation without visiting the object. The update consists of
a re-calculation of the value on the basis of the market rent and the market return on the
valuation date. The following value drivers are considered: gross initial yield (net initial
yield), discount rate, exit yield, market rent, contractual rent, duration of lease, expected
duration of the (future) vacancies and expected incentives for relating. For residential
property, rental and sales turnover rate, the total value if vacant and the vacancy ratio are
also considered.
The fair value of the real estate portfolio is measured by external appraisers. The entire portfolio
is covered by 5 appraisal agencies, per year, 20 % of the portfolio is rotated within this group.
The fair value is based on the BAR / NAR (Bruto Aanvangsrendement/ Netto Aanvangsrendement
or Gross/ Net Initial Yield) methodology. The manager of the real estate portfolio sends the required
basis data to the appraisers after which the appraisers collect reference information in the market.
The reference information could be recent transactions of similar real estate complexes or recent
transactions of similar individual housing.
Using all available information, the external appraisers determine the fair value of the real estate
property by determining the BAR / NAR per property / complex housing (based on the specific
characteristics of the dwellings appraised by them).
The manager of the real estate property corroborates the outcome of the external appraisers’ fair
value by making a confirmatory calculation based on the outcome of two scenarios:
1. Income based scenario; and
2. Scenario based on reference transactions

Page 62 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

The highest outcome of these two scenarios is compared with the BAR / NAR calculations as
provided by the external appraisers. If the difference between both outcomes is material,
discussions with the external appraisers are held and either the confirmatory calculations or the
appraised fair value is amended.
Where large investment, renovation or conservation (maintenance) expenditures are expected
between now and five years, the expected expenditures are explicitly included in the valuation.
Income based scenario
The income based scenario is a further detailing of BAR/NAR using property specific data. This
approach requires the use of the discounted cash flow method and determination of the expected
net rental income for at least a ten year period and the exit value at the end of the timeframe. The
valuator estimates the net rental income by determining the gross market rent in the first year,
based on market rent and adjusting for differences between contractual and market rent, rent
concessions and vacancies. The operational costs, such as fixed expenses, property management
and rental brokerage and maintenance expenses are deducted.
Scenario based on reference transactions
Three reference transactions are used to determine the sale price free of rent and use. Reference
transactions would be with similar objects. If there are not enough reference transactions available,
transactions in comparable cities or historical transactions could also be used for reference. Within
this scenario, the appraisers reduce the sales price of similar houses if the object being appraised
is not free of a tenant. This reduction is based upon the difference between market sales of similar
properties with and without rental contracts. The difference between these two has been between
20% and 25% in recent years.
Specifics with respect to leasehold property (‘erfpacht’)
Especially in the cities of Amsterdam, Rotterdam, The Hague and Utrecht relatively many lands
have been sold in the past as leasehold. At each valuation it is important to determine the situation
of the land the property has been built on (freehold or leasehold). In case of leasehold, the following
general guideline is applicable:

If a canon (leasehold rent) is paid, this is included as operating costs.

If the leasehold has been bought for a certain period, the leasehold is taken into the
valuation as follows:
o Assess the total property value as if it was built on private land and deduct the
value of the bare ownership of the land.
o The value of the bare ownership of the land equals the present value of the
remaining canons plus the present value of the exit value of the land.

If the leasehold has been redeemed indefinitely, there is no need for a correction in the
calculation, unless market references indicate otherwise.
If available, municipal guidelines for the redemption of the canons are used as reference.
Property under construction
Aegon Nederland develops, through the joint venture AMVEST Vastgoed B.V., property itself with
the intention to hold it as investments in real estate. During the construction phase both the land
and the building are presented as investments in real estate. Property under construction is initially
valued at directly attributable costs, plus a premium on the amount invested to cover internal
expenses. Upon completion, the property is carried at fair value, or at an earlier time when the fair
value can be determined reliably.
The fair value of a partially completed investment property reflects the expectations of market
participants of the value of the property when complete, less deductions for the costs required to
complete the project and appropriate adjustments for profit and risk. The valuation and all key
assumptions used in the valuation should reflect market conditions at the valuation date. All fair
value gains and losses are recognized in the income statement.
Page 63 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Maintenance costs and other subsequent expenditure
Expenditure incurred after initial recognition of the asset is capitalized to the extent that the level
of future economic benefits of the asset is increased. Costs that restore or maintain the level of
future economic benefits are recognized in the income statement as incurred.

Investments for account of policyholders
Investments held for account of policyholders consist of investments in financial assets, as well as
investments in real estate. Investment return on these assets is passed on to the policyholders.
Also included are the assets held by consolidated investment funds which are backing liabilities
towards third parties. Investments for account of policyholders are valued at fair value through
profit or loss.
For Aegon’s life business, due to changes in structure of the Aegon Staatsleningen Fund, the related
investments were transferred to the General Account at their fair value of EUR 804 million, with at
the same moment recognition of a guarantee provision equal to the difference between the fair
value of those investments and their carrying amount. The related liabilities have also been
reclassified to own risk for the same amount. This transfer did not result in any equity impact or a
profit or loss.

Derivatives
2.8.1. Definition
Derivatives are financial instruments classified as held for trading assets of which the value changes
in response to an underlying variable, that require little or no net initial investment and are settled
at a future date.
Assets and liabilities may include derivative-like terms and conditions. With the exception of
features embedded in contracts held at fair value through profit or loss, embedded derivatives that
are not considered closely related to the host contract are bifurcated, carried at fair value and
presented as derivatives. In assessing whether a derivative-like feature is closely related to the
contract in which it is embedded, Aegon Nederland considers the similarity of the characteristics of
the embedded derivative and the host contract. Embedded derivatives that transfer significant
insurance risk are accounted for as insurance contracts.
Derivatives with positive values are reported as assets and derivatives with negative values are
reported as liabilities.

2.8.2. Measurement
All derivatives recognized on the statement of financial position are carried at fair value. The fair
value is calculated net of the interest accrued to date and is based on market prices, when available.
When market prices are not available, other valuation techniques, such as option pricing or
stochastic modelling, are applied. The valuation techniques incorporate all factors that market
participants would consider and are based on observable market data, to the extent possible. Fair
value changes are recognized in the income statement.

2.8.3. Hedge accounting
As part of its asset liability management, Aegon Nederland enters into economic hedges to limit its
risk exposure. These transactions are assessed to determine whether hedge accounting can and
should be applied.

Page 64 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

To qualify for hedge accounting, the hedge relationship is designated and formally documented at
inception, detailing the particular risk management objective and strategy for the hedge (which
includes the item and risk that is being hedged), the derivative that is being used and how hedge
effectiveness is being assessed. A derivative has to be effective in accomplishing the objective of
offsetting either changes in fair value or cash flows for the risk being hedged. The effectiveness of
the hedging relationship is evaluated on a prospective and retrospective basis using qualitative and
quantitative measures of correlation. Qualitative methods may include comparison of critical terms
of the derivative to the hedged item. Quantitative methods include a comparison of the changes in
the fair value or discounted cash flow of the hedging instrument to the hedged item. A hedging
relationship is considered effective if the results of the hedging instrument are within a ratio of
80% to 125% of the results of the hedged item. Aegon Nederland currently applies hedge
accounting for fair value hedges.
Fair value hedges
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are
recognized in the income statement, together with fair value adjustments to the hedged item
attributable to the hedged risk. If the hedge relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge
accounting, the cumulative adjustment of the hedged item is, in the case of interest bearing
instruments, amortized through the income statement over the remaining duration of the original
hedge or recognized directly when the hedged item is derecognized.
Aegon Nederland applies fair value hedge accounting to portfolio hedges of interest rate risk (fair
value macro hedging) under the EU ‘carve out’ of IFRS. The EU ‘carve out’ macro hedging enables
a group of derivatives (or proportions thereof) to be viewed in combination and jointly designated
as the hedging instrument and removes some of the limitations in fair value hedge accounting.
Under the EU ‘carve out’, ineffectiveness in fair value hedge accounting only arises when the revised
projection of the amount of cash flows in scheduled time buckets falls below the designated amount
of that bucket. Aegon applies fair value hedge accounting for portfolio hedges of interest rate risk
(macro hedging) under the EU ‘carve out’ to mortgage loans. Changes in the fair value of the
derivatives are recognized in the profit and loss account, together with the fair value adjustment
on the mortgages (hedged items) for the portion attributable to interest rate risk (the hedged risk).

Investment in joint arrangements
In general, joint arrangements are contractual agreements whereby Aegon Nederland undertakes
with other parties an economic activity that is subject to joint control. Joint control exists when it
is contractually agreed to share control over an economic activity. Joint control exists only when
decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures
depending on the contractual rights and obligations each investor has rather than the legal
structure of the joint arrangement. Aegon Nederland has assessed the nature of its joint
arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures. Joint ventures are accounted for using
the equity method.
Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures are initially recognized at cost,
which includes positive goodwill arising on acquisition. Negative goodwill is recognized in the
income statement on the acquisition date. If joint ventures are obtained in successive share
purchases, each significant transaction is accounted for separately.

Page 65 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

The carrying amount is subsequently adjusted to reflect the change in the share of Aegon Nederland
in the net assets of the joint venture and is subject to impairment testing. The net assets are
determined based on the accounting policies of Aegon Nederland. Any gains and losses recorded
in other comprehensive income by the joint venture are reflected in other reserves in shareholders’
equity, while the share in the joint ventures net income is recognized as a separate line item in the
consolidated income statement. The share in losses of Aegon Nederland is recognized until the
investment in the joint ventures' equity and any other long-term interest that are part of the net
investment are reduced to nil, unless guarantees exist.
Gains and losses on transactions between Aegon Nederland and the joint ventures are eliminated
to the extent of the interest in the entity of Aegon Nederland, with the exception of losses that are
evidence of impairment, which are recognized immediately.
On disposal of an interest in a joint venture, the difference between the net proceeds and the
carrying amount is recognized in the income statement and gains and losses previously recorded
directly in the revaluation reserve are reversed and recorded through the income statement.

Investment in associates
Associates are all entities over which Aegon Nederland has significant influence but not control.
Significant influence generally results from a shareholding of 20% or more of the voting rights, but
also the ability to participate in the financial and operating policies through situations including,
but not limited to, one or more of the following:

Representation on the board of directors

Participation in the policy making process

Interchange of managerial personnel
Entities over which Aegon Nederland has significant influence through power to participate in
financial and operating policy decisions, but which do not meet the definition of a subsidiary, are
accounted for using the equity method. Interests held by Aegon Nederland in venture capital
entities, mutual funds and investment funds that qualify as an associate are accounted for as an
investment held at fair value through profit or loss. Interests held by Aegon Nederland in venture
capital entities, mutual funds and investment funds that are managed on a fair value basis, are
also accounted for as investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Interests in associates are initially recognized at cost, which includes positive goodwill arising on
acquisition. Negative goodwill is recognized in the income statement on the acquisition date. If
associates are obtained in successive share purchases, each significant transaction is accounted
for separately.
The carrying amount is subsequently adjusted to reflect the change in the share of Aegon Nederland
in the net assets of the associate and is subject to impairment testing. The net assets are
determined based on the accounting policies of Aegon Nederland. Any gains and losses recorded
in other comprehensive income by the associate are reflected in other reserves in shareholders’
equity, while the share in the associate’s net income is recognized as a separate line item in the
consolidated income statement. The share in losses of Aegon Nederland is recognized until the
investment in the associate’s equity and any other long-term interest that are part of the net
investment are reduced to nil, unless guarantees exist.
Gains and losses on transactions between Aegon Nederland and the associate are eliminated to the
extent of the interest in the entity of Aegon Nederland, with the exception of losses that are
evidence of impairment which are recognized immediately.
On disposal of an interest in an associate, the difference between the net proceeds and the carrying
amount is recognized in the income statement and gains and losses previously recorded directly in
the revaluation reserve are reversed and recorded through the income statement.
Page 66 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Reinsurance assets
Reinsurance contracts are contracts entered into by Aegon Nederland in order to receive
compensation for claims/benefits incurred on contracts written by Aegon Nederland (outgoing
reinsurance). For contracts transferring sufficient insurance risk, a reinsurance asset is recognized
for the expected future benefits, less expected future reinsurance premiums. Reinsurance contracts
with insufficient insurance risk transfer are accounted for as investment or service contracts,
depending on the nature of the agreement.
Reinsurance assets are measured consistently with the assumptions associated with the underlying
insurance contracts and in accordance with the terms of each reinsurance contract. They are
subject to impairment testing and are derecognized when the contractual rights are extinguished
or expire or when the contract is transferred to another party.
Aegon Nederland is not relieved of its legal liabilities when entering into reinsurance transactions,
therefore the reserves relating to the underlying insurance contracts will continue to be reported
on the statement of financial position during the contractual term of the underlying contracts.
Reinsurance premiums, commissions and claim settlements are accounted for in the same way as
the original contracts for which the reinsurance was concluded. The insurance premiums for the
original contracts are presented gross of reinsurance premiums paid.

Deferred expenses
2.12.1.

Deferred policy acquisition costs (DPAC)

DPAC (Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs) relates to all insurance contracts as well as investment
contracts with discretionary participation features and represents directly attributable costs that
are related to the selling, underwriting and initiating of these insurance contracts. DPAC are
deferred to the extent that they are recoverable and are subsequently amortized based on factors
such as expected gross profit margins. For all products, DPAC, in conjunction with VOBA where
appropriate, is assessed for recoverability at least annually as part of the liability adequacy test for
each reporting period. The portion of DPAC that is determined not to be recoverable is charged to
the income statement. DPAC is derecognized when the related contracts are settled or disposed of.

2.12.2.

Deferred cost of reinsurance

A deferred cost of reinsurance is established when Aegon Nederland enters into a reinsurance
transaction except for reinsurance transactions that are entered into as part of a plan to exit a
business. When Aegon enters into a reinsurance contract as part of a plan to exit a business, an
immediate loss is recognized in the income statement. Upon reinsurance, Aegon Nederland is not
relieved of its legal liabilities, so the reserves relating to the underlying reinsured contracts will
continue to be reported in the consolidated statement of financial position during the contractual
term of the underlying contracts. When losses on buying reinsurance are deferred, the
amortization is based on the assumptions of the underlying insurance contracts. The amortization
is recognized in the income statement.

Other assets and receivables
Other assets and receivables include real estate held for own use, equipment, trade and other
receivables, and prepaid expenses. Other assets and receivables are initially recognized at fair
value and are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less
provision for impairment. Equipment is initially carried at cost, depreciated on a straight line basis
over its useful life to its residual value and is subject to impairment testing. The accounting for real
estate held for own use is described in note 2.6 ‘Investments’.

Page 67 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Intangible assets
2.14.1.

Goodwill

Goodwill is recognized as an intangible asset for interests in subsidiaries and is measured as the
positive difference between the acquisition cost and the Aegon Nederland’s interest in the net fair
value of the entity’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Subsequently, goodwill
is carried at cost less accumulated impairment charges. It is derecognized when the interest in the
subsidiary is disposed.

2.14.2.

Value of business acquired

When a portfolio of insurance contracts or insurance agency activities is acquired, whether directly
from another insurance company or as part of a business combination, the difference between the
fair value and the carrying amount of the insurance liabilities is recognized as value of business
acquired (VOBA).
VOBA with respect to insurance contracts is amortized over the useful life of the acquired contracts,
based on either the expected future premiums, revenues or the expected gross profit margins. The
amortization period and pattern are reviewed at each reporting date; any change in estimates is
recorded in the income statement. For all products, VOBA, in conjunction with deferred policy
acquisition costs (DPAC) where appropriate, is assessed for recoverability at least annually and the
portion determined not to be recoverable is charged to the income statement. VOBA is considered
in the liability adequacy test (or LAT) for each reporting period. When unrealized gains or losses
arise on available-for-sale assets, VOBA is adjusted to equal the effect that the realization of the
gains or losses (through a sale or impairment) would have had on VOBA. The adjustment is
recognized directly in shareholders’ equity. VOBA is derecognized when the related contracts are
settled or disposed of.
VOBA with respect to insurance agency activities is amortized over the duration of the related
contracts, taken the lapse rate in the portfolios into account. This is presented as 'VOBA
intermediary portfolios.

2.14.3.

Software and other intangible assets

Software and other intangible assets are recognized to the extent that; 1) the assets can be
identified, 2) are controlled by Aegon Nederland, 3) are expected to provide future economic
benefits and 4) can be measured reliably. Aegon Nederland does not recognize internally generated
intangible assets arising from research or internally generated goodwill, brands, customer lists and
similar items. Software and other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated
amortization and impairment losses. The asset is amortized over its useful life as the future
economic benefits emerge and is recognized in the income statement as an expense. The
amortization period and pattern are reviewed at each reporting date, with any changes recognized
in the income statement. An intangible asset is derecognized when it is disposed of or when no
future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.

Impairment of assets
An asset is impaired if the carrying amount exceeds the amount that would be recovered through
its use or sale. For tangible and intangible assets, financial assets and reinsurance assets, if not
held at fair value through profit or loss, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated when
there are indications that the asset may be impaired. Irrespective of the indications, goodwill and
other intangible assets with an indefinite useful life that are not amortized are tested at least
annually.

Page 68 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

There are a number of significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the process of monitoring
investments and determining if impairment exists. These risks and uncertainties include the risk
that Aegon Nederland’s assessment of an issuer’s ability to meet all of its contractual obligations
will change based on changes in the credit characteristics of that issuer and the risk that the
economic outlook will be worse than expected or have more of an impact on the issuer than
anticipated. Any of these situations could result in a charge against the income statement to the
extent of the impairment charge recorded.

2.15.1.

Impairment of non-financial assets

Assets are tested individually for impairment when there are indications that the asset may be
impaired. For goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life, an impairment test is
performed at least once a year or more frequently as a result of an event or change in
circumstances that would indicate an impairment charge may be necessary. The impairment
loss is calculated as the difference between the carrying and the recoverable amount of the asset,
which is the higher of an asset’s value in use and its fair value less cost of disposal. The value in
use represents the discounted future net cash flows from the continuing use and ultimate disposal
of the asset and reflects its known inherent risks and uncertainties. The valuation utilizes the best
available information, including assumptions and projections considered reasonable and
supportable by management. The assumptions used in the valuation involve significant judgments
and estimates. Refer to note 15 ‘Intangible assets’ for more details.
Impairment losses are charged to shareholders’ equity to the extent that they offset a previously
recorded revaluation reserve relating to the same item. Any further losses are recognized directly
in the income statement.
With the exception of goodwill, impairment losses are reversed when there is evidence that there
has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the
recognition of the last impairment loss. The reversal is recognized in the income statement to the
extent that it reverses impairment losses previously recognized in the income statement. The
carrying amount after reversal cannot exceed the amount that would have been recognized had no
impairment taken place.
Non-financial assets that only generate cash flows in combination with other assets and liabilities
are tested for impairment at the level of the cash-generating unit. The goodwill acquired in a
business combination, for the purpose of impairment testing, is allocated to cash-generating units,
or groups of cash-generating units, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the
combination. The allocation is based on the level at which goodwill is monitored internally. When
impairing a cash-generating unit, any goodwill allocated to the unit is first written-off and
recognized in the income statement. The remaining impairment loss is allocated on a pro rata basis
among the other assets, on condition that the resulting carrying amounts do not fall below the
individual assets’ recoverable amounts.

2.15.2.

Impairment of debt instruments

Debt instruments are impaired if there is objective evidence that a credit event has occurred after
the initial recognition of the asset that has a negative impact on the estimated future cash flows.
Individually significant loans and other receivables are first assessed separately. All non-impaired
assets measured at amortized cost are then grouped by credit risk characteristics and collectively
tested for impairment.
For debt instruments carried at amortized cost, the carrying amount of impaired financial assets is
reduced through an allowance account. The impairment loss is calculated as the difference between
the carrying and recoverable amount of the investment. The recoverable amount is determined by
discounting the estimated probable future cash flows at the original effective interest rate of the
asset. For variable interest debt instruments, the current effective interest rate under the contract
is applied.
Page 69 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

For debt instruments classified as available-for-sale, the asset is impaired to its fair value. Any
unrealized loss previously recognized in other comprehensive income is taken to the income
statement in the impairment loss. After impairment the interest accretion on debt instruments that
are classified as available-for-sale is recognized using the rate of interest used to discount the
future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
Impairment losses recognized for debt instruments can be reversed if in subsequent periods the
amount of the impairment loss decreases and that decrease can be objectively related to a credit
event occurring after the impairment was recognized. For debt instruments carried at amortized
cost, the carrying amount after reversal cannot exceed what the amortized cost would have been
at the reversal date, had the impairment not been recognized.

2.15.3.

Impairment of equity instruments

For equity instruments, objective evidence of impairment of an investment in an equity instrument
classified as available-for-sale includes information about significant changes with an adverse effect
that have taken place in the technological, market, economic or legal environment in which the
issuer operates, and which change indicates that the cost of the investment in the equity instrument
may not be fully recovered.
A significant or prolonged decline in fair value below initial cost is also considered objective evidence
of impairment and results in a loss being recognized in the income statement. Significant or
prolonged decline is defined by Aegon Nederland as an unrealized loss position for generally more
than six months or a fair value below 80% of the cost price of the investment. Equity investments
are impaired to the asset’s fair value and any unrealized gain or loss previously recognized in
shareholders’ equity is taken to the income statement as an impairment loss. The amount
exceeding the balance of previously recognized unrealized gains or losses is recognized in the
income statement.
If an available-for-sale equity security is impaired based upon Aegon Nederland’s qualitative or
quantitative impairment criteria, any further declines in the fair value at subsequent reporting dates
are recognized as impairments. Therefore, at each reporting period, for an equity security that is
determined to be impaired based upon Aegon Nederland’s impairment criteria, an impairment is
recognized for the difference between the fair value and the original cost basis, less any previously
recognized impairments. Impairment losses on equity instruments cannot be reversed.

2.15.4.

Impairment of reinsurance assets

Reinsurance assets are impaired if there is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred
after initial recognition of the reinsurance asset, that not all amounts due under the terms of the
contract may be received. In such a case, the value of the reinsurance asset recoverable is
determined based on the best estimate of future cash flows, taking into consideration the
reinsurer’s current and expected future financial conditions plus any collateral held in trust for
Aegon Nederland’s benefit. The carrying value is reduced to this calculated recoverable value, and
the impairment loss recognized in the income statement.

Equity
Share capital is stated at par value. The share premium reserve, relates to capital contributions
which have occurred since incorporation without issuing new shares. The revaluation reserves
comprise unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale investments and on real estate held for
own use, net of tax. Upon sale of available-for-sale securities, the realized result is recognized
through the income statement. Upon sale of real estate held for own use, the cumulative
revaluation is taken direct to retained earnings. In the event of impairments, the unrealized loss is
recognized through the income statement.

Page 70 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Dividends and other distributions to holders of equity instruments are recognized directly in equity.
A liability for dividends payable is not recognized until the dividends have been declared and
approved.

Insurance contracts
Insurance contracts are accounted for under IFRS 4 – Insurance Contracts. In accordance with this
standard, Aegon Nederland continues to apply the existing accounting policies that were applied
prior to the adoption of IFRS, with certain modifications allowed by IFRS 4 for standards effective
subsequent to adoption. Aegon Nederland applies in general accounting policies for insurance
liabilities to the extent that it was allowed under Dutch Accounting Principles. If any changes are
made to current accounting policy for insurance contracts, these will be in accordance with IFRS 4.
Insurance assets and liabilities are valued in accordance with the accounting principles that were
applied by Aegon Nederland prior to the transition to IFRS and with consideration of changes to
standards effective subsequent to the date of transition to IFRS, as further described in the
following paragraphs. The valuation methods are based on the general principle that the carrying
amount of the net liability must be sufficient to meet any reasonably foreseeable obligation
resulting from the insurance contracts.
Insurance contracts are contracts under which Aegon Nederland accepts a significant risk – other
than a financial risk – from a policyholder by agreeing to compensate the beneficiary on the
occurrence of an uncertain future event by which he or she will be adversely affected. Contracts
that do not meet this definition are accounted for as investment contracts. Aegon Nederland
reviews homogeneous books of contracts to assess whether the underlying contracts transfer
significant insurance risk on an individual basis. This is considered the case when at least one
scenario with commercial substance can be identified in which Aegon Nederland has to pay
significant additional benefits to the policyholder. Contracts that have been classified as insurance
are not reclassified subsequently.
Insurance liabilities are recognized when the contract is entered into and premiums have started
being charged. The liability is derecognized when the contract expires, is discharged, disposed or
cancelled. Substantially modified contracts are accounted for as an extinguishment of the original
liability and the recognition of a new liability.
Insurance contracts are recognized as of the beginning of the coverage period. If the coverage
period commences before all legal documents are signed and returned, the insurance contract shall
still be recognized, if
a) the amount of revenue can be measured reliably:
The entity has agreed to the following with the other parties to the transaction:

Each party’s enforceable rights regarding the service to be provided and received by the
parties;

The consideration to be exchanged; and

The manner and terms of settlement,
From Aegon Nederland’s point of view, the date of the offer would be the date Aegon
Nederland agreed to the above. However, this is not necessarily the date at which both
parties have agreed to the terms. This could be but is not limited to:

A signed and returned offer;

An acceptance email from the client;

The receipt of first deposits
b) It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the
entity.

Page 71 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

In the unlikely event of an onerous contract, this contract is to be recognized at the earliest date
of:
(a) the beginning of the coverage period or
(b) the date on which both parties have agreed to the terms (the same guidance as for
profitable contracts applies).

2.17.1.

Life insurance contracts

Life insurance contracts are insurance contracts with life-contingent benefits. The measurement of
the liability for life insurance contracts varies depending on the nature of the product.
Liabilities arising from traditional life insurance products that are offered by Aegon Nederland,
particularly those with fixed and guaranteed account terms, are typically measured using the net
premium method. Under this method, the liability is determined as the sum of the discounted value
of the expected benefits and future administration expenses directly related to the contract, less
the discounted value of the expected theoretical premiums that would be required to meet the
future cash outflows based on the valuation assumptions used. The liability is based on current
assumptions, although for the discount rate a fixed 3% or 4% is used. Furthermore, the liability
for life insurance comprises reserves for unearned premiums and accrued annuity benefits payable.
The liability for life insurance products includes the provision for future administration expenses,
formed to cover the expected future expenses with respect to the period after premium payment,
as well as a provision with respect to future expenses associated with processing benefits (such as
annuities and pension payments).
Terms and conditions, including participation features, are considered when establishing the
insurance liabilities. Where Aegon Nederland has discretion over the amount or timing of the
bonuses distributed resulting from participation features, a liability is recognized equal to the
amount that is available at the balance sheet date for future distribution to policyholders.
In establishing the liability, guaranteed minimum benefits issued to the policyholder are measured
as described in note 2.17.4 ‘Embedded derivatives’ or, if bifurcated from the host contract, as
described in note 2.8 ‘Derivatives’.

2.17.2.

Deferred interest contracts

A rebate granted and/or future interest compensation granted during the year is a form of profit
sharing whereby Aegon Nederland applies a correction to the premium payable based on the
expected (surplus or deficit) interest that will be earned on the contract. The expected interest is
calculated with reference to a portfolio of government bonds. The rebate can be subject to
additional conditions concerning actual returns or the continuation of the policy for a specified
number of years.
Rebates granted and/or future interest compensation granted during the year that are expected to
be recovered in future periods are deferred and amortized on a straight line basis as the surplus
or deficit interest is realized. The amortization is recognized in the income statement in
‘Policyholder claims and benefits’. Interest rebates form part of the insurance contract liability.
Deferred rebates granted and/or future interest compensation granted during the year are
derecognized when the related contracts are settled or disposed of.

Page 72 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2.17.3.

Life insurance contracts for account of policyholders

Life insurance contracts under which the policyholder bears the risks associated with the underlying
investments are classified as insurance contracts for account of policyholders. The liability for the
insurance contracts for account of policyholders is measured at the policyholders account balance.
Contracts with unit-denominated payments are measured at current unit values, which reflect the
fair values of the assets of the fund. In addition, the measurement of these insurance contracts
also include provisioning for expected additional costs, such as expenses and longevity.

2.17.4.

Embedded derivatives

Life insurance contracts typically include derivative-like terms and conditions. With the exception
of policyholder options to surrender the contract at a fixed amount, contractual features that are
not closely related to the insurance contract and that do not themselves meet the definition of
insurance contracts are accounted for as derivatives.
Guaranteed minimum benefits
Certain life insurance contracts, issued by Aegon Nederland, contain guaranteed minimum benefits.
Bifurcated guaranteed minimum benefits are classified as derivatives. An additional liability is
established for guaranteed minimum investment returns on group pension plans with profit sharing
and on traditional insurance contracts with profit sharing based on an external interest index, that
are not bifurcated. These guarantees are measured at fair value.

2.17.5.

Shadow accounting

Shadow accounting allows that all gains and losses on investments to affect the measurement of
the insurance assets and liabilities in the same way, regardless of whether they are realized or
unrealized and regardless of whether the unrealized gains and losses are recognized in the income
statement or directly in equity in the revaluation reserve. In some instances, realized gains or
losses on investments have a direct effect on the measurement of the insurance assets and
liabilities. For example, some insurance contracts include benefits that are contractually based on
the investment returns realized by the insurer. In addition, realization of gains or losses on
available-for-sale investments can lead to unlocking of VOBA or DPAC and can also affect the
outcome of the liability adequacy test to the extent that it considers actual future investment
returns. For similar changes in unrealized gains and losses, shadow accounting is applied. If interest
rate movement resulting in an unrealized gain or loss triggers a shadow accounting adjustment to
VOBA, DPAC or the insurance liabilities, the corresponding adjustment is recognized through other
comprehensive income in the revaluation reserve, together with the unrealized gain or loss.

2.17.6.

Non-life insurance contracts

Non-life insurance contracts are insurance contracts where the insured event is not life-contingent.
For non-life products the insurance liability generally includes reserves for unearned premiums,
unexpired risk, inadequate premium levels and outstanding claims and benefits. No catastrophe or
equalization reserves are included in the measurement of the liability.
The reserve for unearned premiums includes premiums received for risks that have not yet expired.
Generally, the reserve is released over the coverage period of the premium and is recognized as
premium income on a linear basis.
The liability for outstanding claims and benefits is established for claims that have not been settled
and any related cash flows, such as claims handling costs. It includes claims that have been
incurred but have not been reported to Aegon Schadeverzekering. The liability is calculated at the
reporting date using statistical methods based on empirical data and current assumptions that may
include a margin for adverse deviation.

Page 73 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Liabilities for claims subject to periodic payment are calculated using actuarial methods consistent
with those applied to life insurance contracts. Discounting is applied when measuring these
insurance liabilities when there is a high level of certainty concerning the amount and settlement
term of the cash outflows. The margin for risk represents the cost of capital held for un-hedgeable
financial and underwriting risks.
The insurance liability for periodic payments (‘Arbeidsongeschiktheidsverzekering’ (AOV)) is
calculated on an ‘item by item’ basis. For AOV Individual contracts, the calculation takes place
according to the 'AOV-2000' principles, using the ‘KAZO’ method, discounting the liability at a 3%
discount rate. With respect to AOV group contracts as well as the WIA (‘Wet Inkomen en Arbeid’)
contracts, the claims regarding long-term sick leave (>2 years) are calculated on an ‘item by item’
based on empirical data and information from the industry and discounted with Aegon
Schadeverzekering’s LAT curve. The LAT curve is constructed using 6 months swaps until the last
liquid point of 30 years. After the last liquid point, the forward rate converges to a UFR of 4.25%
in ten years. A liquidity premium is applied to the curve. At the end of 2017, this liquidity premium
was 3 basis points. The liquidity premium is held level for 20 years. After 20 years the liquidity
premium decreases linearly in 20 years to zero.

2.17.7.

Liability Adequacy Testing

Aegon Nederland performs an aggregate Liability Adequacy Test for both life and non-life insurance
contracts together.
Liability Adequacy Testing with respect to life insurance contracts
At each reporting date, the adequacy of the life insurance liabilities (including life insurance
contracts for account of policyholders), net of VOBA and DPAC, is assessed using a liability
adequacy test. The liability is considered to be "adequate" if the current estimate of all contractual
future cash flows is less than the insurance liability plus the difference between carrying value and
fair value of certain investments.
All tests performed within Aegon Nederland are based on current estimates of all contractual future
cash flows, including related cash flows from policyholders’ options and guarantees. A number of
valuation methods are applied, including discounted cash flow methods, option pricing models,
stochastic modelling and future claim handling costs.
Aggregation levels are set at the level of portfolio of contracts that are subject to broadly similar
risks and managed together as a single portfolio. Diversification benefits on the level of the group
are taken into account. To the extent that the tests involve discounting of future cash flows, the
interest rate applied is based on market rates or is based on the expectation of the future return
on investments. These future returns on investments take into account management’s best
estimate related to the actual investments and, where applicable, reinvestments of these
investments at maturity.
To the extent that the account balances are insufficient to meet future benefits and expenses, we
apply in principal shadow loss recognition. Any remaining deficiency is recognized in the income
statement, either by impairing the DPAC and VOBA or by establishing an insurance liability for the
entire remaining deficiency. The assumptions in the liability adequacy test contain a margin for
risk. The risk margin is determined according to the cost of capital method.
Additions to the insurance liability under the liability adequacy test can be reversed in subsequent
periods when they have proven to be no longer necessary.

Page 74 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

The estimates used in de liability adequacy test, are based on the following items:
- For the liability adequacy test Aegon Nederland uses mortality tables that take into account
expected future changes in life expectancy (the Aegon prospective mortality table). Aegon
Nederland also uses this prospective table in its financial statements.
- The liability adequacy test uses a swap curve with a liquidity spread, and including an ultimate
forward rate (UFR), to discount future cash flows, whilst the insurance liabilities on Aegon
Nederland statement of financial position are determined using discount rates as contractually
agreed, mainly 3% and 4%. The liquidity spread based on Aegon N.V. is deemed suitable for Aegon
Nederland.
- Assumptions on future expenses are based on the current level of expenses, adjusted for expected
expense inflation.
- The assumptions in the liability adequacy test contain a margin for risk.
Shadow loss recognition
While using market interest rates for the valuation of debt securities will lead to a change in the
revaluation reserve and comprehensive income, the result of using the same assumptions on the
liabilities could lead to a deficiency in the liability adequacy test that should be recognized in the
income statement. The deficiency of insurance liability triggered by a decrease in interest rates is
offset against the revaluation reserves to the extent that the revaluation reserve on debt securities
will not become negative. If in subsequent periods such a deficiency of the insurance liability is no
longer applicable, shadow loss recognition is reversed through the revaluation reserve. See note
3.3 ‘Valuation of assets and liabilities arising from life insurance contracts’ for more information on
the applied interest yield and mortality tables.
Liability Adequacy Testing with respect to non-life insurance contracts
On a quarterly basis the adequacy of the non-life insurance liabilities is assessed using a liability
adequacy test. The liability is considered to be "adequate" if the current estimate of all contractual
future cash flows is less than the insurance liability plus the difference between carrying value and
fair value of certain investments. To the extent that the account balances are insufficient to meet
future claims and expenses, additional liabilities are established and included in the liability for
non-life insurance.
Changes in expected claims that have occurred, but that have not been settled, are reflected by
adjusting the liability for claims and future benefits. The reserve for unexpired risk is increased to
the extent that the future claims and expenses in respect of current insurance contracts exceed
the future premiums plus the current unearned premium reserve.
Additions to the insurance liability under the liability adequacy test can be reversed in subsequent
periods when they have proven to be no longer necessary.

Savings deposits
Savings deposits are stated at amortized cost (net of accrued interest). Accrued interest is
recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position under 'other liabilities and accruals'.
The balances are largely repayable on demand. The initial valuation of this item reasonably
approximates fair value.

Page 75 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Investment contracts
Contracts issued by Aegon Nederland that do not transfer significant insurance risk, but do transfer
financial risk from the policyholder to Aegon Nederland are accounted for as investment contracts.
Depending on whether Aegon Nederland or the policyholder runs the risks associated with the
investments allocated to the contract, the liabilities are classified as investment contracts or as
investment contracts for account of policyholders. Investment contract liabilities are recognized
when the contract is entered into and are derecognized when the contract expires, is discharged
or is cancelled and are measurement at amortized cost.

Investment contracts for account of policyholders
Investment contracts for account of policyholders are investment contracts for which the actual
return on investments allocated to the contract is passed on to the policyholders. Investment
contracts for account of policyholders are designated at fair value through profit or loss. Contracts
with unit-denominated payments are measured at current unit values, which reflect the fair values
of the assets of the fund.
In 2017, the investment contracts for account of policyholders decreased mainly due to
derecognition of a part of the portfolio of Aegon PPI. Based on the changes in the risks associated
to that part of the portfolio, it was concluded that Aegon PPI no longer controls that part of portfolio
which resulted in the derecognition.

Borrowings and group loans
Borrowings and group loans are initially recognized at their fair value excluding accrued interest
and including directly attributable incremental transaction costs and are subsequently carried at
amortized cost using the effective interest rate method, with the exception of specific borrowings
that are measured at fair value through profit or loss to eliminate, or significantly reduce, an
accounting mismatch, or specific borrowings which are carried at fair value as part of a fair value
hedge relationship. Borrowings and group loans are derecognized when Aegon Nederland’s
obligation under the contract expires or is discharged or cancelled.

Provisions
A provision is recognized for present legal or constructive obligations arising from past events,
when it is probable that it will result in an outflow of economic benefits and the amount can be
reliably estimated. Management exercises judgment in evaluating the probability that a loss will be
incurred.
The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the
present obligation at the balance sheet date, considering all its inherent risks and uncertainties, as
well as the time value of money. The estimate of the amount of a loss requires management
judgment in the selection of a proper calculation model and the specific assumptions related to the
particular exposure. The unwinding of the effect of discounting is recorded in the income statement
as an interest expense.
Onerous contracts
With the exception of insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participation
features for which potential future losses are already considered in establishing the liability, a
provision is recognized for onerous contracts in which the unavoidable cost of meeting the resulting
obligations exceed the expected future economic benefits. The unavoidable costs under a contract
reflect the least net cost of exiting from the contract, which is the lower of the cost of fulfilling it
and any compensation or penalties arising from failure to fulfil it.
Page 76 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Restructuring provisions
Restructuring provisions comprise the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are
those that are both:
(a) necessarily entailed by the restructuring; and
(b) not associated with the ongoing activities of Aegon Nederland.
The expenditures included in the restructuring provision are mainly employee expenses and these
are based on the social plan. For Aegon Nederland, this means that a reassignment period of up to
six months for surplus staff has been taken into account and that redundancy payments will be
made to all surplus staff who cannot be relocated, irrespective of whether they find a new job
within the reassignment period.

Provisions for commissions
This provision consists of ‘unearned’ commissions. These commissions have been received, but the
activities to earn the commissions are still to be performed. Part of this provision is also the possible
future repayment of upfront fees received.

Assets and liabilities relating to employee benefits
2.23.1.

Short-term employee benefits

A liability is recognized for the undiscounted amount of short-term employee benefits expected to
be settled within one year after the end of the period in which the service was rendered.
Accumulating short-term absences are recognized over the period in which the service is provided.
Benefits that are not service-related are recognized when the event that gives rise to the obligation
occurs.

2.23.2.

Post-employment benefits

Aegon Nederland has issued defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans. A plan is classified
as a defined contribution plan when Aegon Nederland has no further obligation than the payment
of a fixed contribution. All other plans are classified as defined benefit plans.

Defined contribution plans
The contribution payable to a defined contribution plan for services provided is recognized as an
expense in the income statement. An asset (or liability) is recognized to the extent that the
contribution paid exceeds (or fall short of) the amount due for services provided.

Defined benefit plans
Measurement
The defined benefit obligation is based on the terms and conditions of the plan applicable on the
balance sheet date. In measuring the defined benefit obligation Aegon Nederland uses the
projected unit credit method and actuarial assumptions that represent the best estimate of future
variables.
The benefits are discounted using an interest rate based on the market yield for high-quality
corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that
have terms to maturity that approximate the terms of the related pension liability. Actuarial
assumptions used in the measurement of the liability include the discount rate, estimated future
wage inflation, mortality rates and price inflation. To the extent that actual experience deviates
from these assumptions, the valuation of defined benefit plans and the level of pension expenses
recognized in the future may be affected.

Page 77 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Plan improvements (either vested or unvested) are recognized in the income statement at the date
when the plan improvement occurs.
Plan assets are qualifying insurance policies and assets held by long-term employee benefit funds
that can only be used to pay the employee benefits under the plan and are not available to the
creditors of Aegon Nederland. They are measured at fair value and are deducted from the defined
benefit obligation in determining the amount recognized on the statement of financial position.
Assets held by Aegon Nederland backing the retirement benefits do not meet the definition of plan
assets and as such were not deducted from the defined benefit obligation. Instead, these assets
are recognized as general account assets. Consequently, the expected return on these assets also
does not form part of the calculation of defined benefit expenses.
Income statement recognition
The costs of the defined benefit plans are determined at the beginning of the year and comprise
the following components:

Current year service cost which is recognized in the income statement; and

Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) which is recognized in the income
statement.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) which are recognized in other
comprehensive income are revisited quarterly. Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability
(asset) shall not be reclassified to profit or loss in a subsequent period.
Any employee contributions are deducted from the current year service cost. Net interest on the
net defined benefit liability (asset) shall be determined by multiplying the net defined benefit
liability (asset) by the applicable discount rate. Net interest on the net defined benefit liability
(asset) comprises interest income on plan assets and interest expenses on the defined benefit
obligation. Whereby interest income on plan assets is a component of the return on plan assets,
and is determined by multiplying the fair value of the plan assets by the applicable discount rate.
The difference between the interest income on plan assets and the actual return on plan assets is
included in the remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability (asset).
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) comprise of:

Actuarial gains and losses;

The return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined
benefit liability (asset); and

Any change in the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in net interest on
the net defined benefit liability (asset).
Past service cost is the increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for employee
service in prior periods, resulting in the current period from the introduction of, or changes to,
post-employment benefits.
Settlements
Gains or losses on curtailments or settlements of a defined benefit plan comprise of the difference
between:

The present value of the defined benefit obligation being settled, as determined on the date
of settlement; and

The settlement price, including any plan assets transferred and any payments made
directly by Aegon Nederland in connection with the settlement.
Aegon Nederland recognizes gains or losses on the curtailment or settlement of a defined benefit
plan when the curtailment or settlement occurs in the income statement.

Page 78 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2.23.3.

Share-based payments

Aegon Nederland operates share-based plans applicable to the Aegon N.V. Group that entitle
employees to receive equity instruments over common shares of the parent company Aegon N.V.
All of the share-based plans operated are settled by Aegon Nederland in shares of Aegon N.V. or
in cash and are therefore recognized as cash-settled share based payment transactions.

Tax assets and liabilities
Corporate income tax assets and liabilities are amounts payable to and receivable from Aegon N.V.,
since Aegon N.V. is the head of the tax group. Aegon Global Investment Fund B.V. is not part of
the group of companies included Aegon N.V. tax group. Optas Pensioenen N.V. is exempt from
paying corporate income tax.

2.24.1.

Current tax assets and liabilities

Corporate income tax assets and liabilities for current and prior periods are measured at the
amount expected to be received from or paid to the taxation authorities, applying the tax rates
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Aegon Nederland is a member of the Aegon N.V. tax group and settles its current tax liabilities with
the head of the tax group as if it were an autonomous taxpayer. Aegon Nederland is jointly and
severally liable for all tax liabilities of the entire tax group. Current taxes are settled in current
account with the parent company.

2.24.2.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax effects of temporary
differences between the carrying value of an item and its tax value, with the exception of
differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill and of assets and liabilities that do not
impact taxable or accounting profits. A deferred tax asset is recognized for tax loss carry forwards
to the extent that it is probable at the reporting date that future taxable profits will be available
against which the unused tax losses and unused tax credits can be utilized.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are reviewed at each reporting period and are measured at tax
rates that are expected to apply when the asset is realized or the liability is settled. Since there is
no absolute assurance that these assets will ultimately be realized, management reviews Aegon
Nederland’s deferred tax position at each reporting period to determine if it is probable that the
assets will be realized. Periodic reviews include, among other things, the nature and amount of the
taxable income and deductible expenses, the expected timing when certain assets will be used or
liabilities will be required to be reported and the reliability of historical profitability of businesses
expected to provide future earnings. Furthermore, management considers tax-planning
opportunities it can utilize to increase the likelihood that the tax assets will be realized. These
opportunities are also considered in the periodic reviews. The carrying amount is not discounted
and reflects the expectations of Aegon Nederland concerning the manner of recovery or settlement.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized in relation to the underlying transaction either in
the income statement, other comprehensive income or directly in equity.

2.24.3.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities relating to investments in
subsidiaries
Deferred tax liabilities relating to investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are not
recognized if Aegon Nederland is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary
difference and it is probable that the difference will not be reversed in the foreseeable future.

Page 79 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Other liabilities and accruals
Other liabilities and accruals are initially recognized at fair value plus transaction costs. They are
then recognized at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method. A liability is
derecognized when the financial obligation is discharged or cancelled. Unless stated otherwise,
deferred interest and other accruals are recognized at (amortized) cost.

Contingent assets and liabilities
Contingent assets are disclosed in the notes if the inflow of economic benefits is probable, but not
virtually certain. When the inflow of economic benefits becomes virtually certain, the asset is no
longer contingent and its recognition is appropriate.
A provision is recognized for present legal or constructive obligations arising from past events,
when it is probable that it will result in an outflow of economic benefits and the amount can be
reliably estimated. If the outflow of economic benefits is not probable, a contingent liability is
disclosed, unless the possibility of an outflow of economic benefits is remote.

Premium income
Gross premiums, including recurring and single premiums, from life and non-life insurance are
recognized as revenue when they become receivable. For products where deposit accounting is
required, the deposits are not reflected as premium income, but are recognized as part of the
financial liability.
Premium loadings for instalment payments and additional payments by the policyholders towards
costs borne by the insurer are included in the gross premiums. Rebates that form part of the
premium rate, such as no-claim rebates, are deducted from the gross premium, others are
recognized as an expense. Profit sharing amounts that are used to increase the insured benefits
are recognized as gross premiums. The insurance premiums for the original contracts are presented
gross of reinsurance premiums paid.
Unearned premiums are the portion of premiums written in a financial year that relate to risk
periods after the reporting date. Unearned premiums are calculated pro rata. The proportion
attributable to subsequent reporting periods is recognized in the reserve for unearned premiums.
Reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same way as the original contracts for which the
reinsurance was concluded.

Investment income
For interest-bearing assets, interest is recognized as it accrues and is calculated using the effective
interest rate method. Fees and commissions that are an integral part of the effective yield of the
financial assets or liabilities are recognized as an adjustment to the effective interest rate of the
instrument. Investment income includes the interest income and dividend income on financial
assets carried at fair value through profit or loss. Investment income also includes dividends
accrued and rental income due, as well as fees received for security lending.

Fee and commission income
Fees and commissions from investment management services and mutual funds, services where
Aegon Nederland acts as service provider (including mortgage loan fee business) and from sales
activities are recognized as revenue over the period in which the services are performed or for
sales activities where services have been rendered.
Page 80 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Income from reinsurance ceded
Reinsurance claims are recognized as income when the related gross insurance claim is recognized
in accordance with terms and conditions of the corresponding insurance contract.

Policyholders claims and benefits
Policyholders claims and benefits consists of claims and benefits paid to policyholders, including
benefits in excess of account value for products for which deposit accounting is applied and the
change in the valuation of liabilities for insurance and investment contracts. It includes internal
and external claims handling costs that are directly related to the processing and settlement of
claims. Amounts receivable in respect of salvage and subrogation are also considered.

Results from financial transactions
Results from financial transactions include:

2.32.1.
Net fair value change of general account financial investments at
fair value through profit or loss, other than derivatives
Net fair value change of general account financial investments at fair value through profit or loss,
other than derivatives include fair value changes of financial assets carried at fair value through
profit or loss. The net gains and losses do not include interest or dividend income.

2.32.2.

Realized gains and losses on financial investments

Gains and losses on financial investments include realized gains and losses on general account
financial assets, other than those classified as at fair value through profit or loss.

2.32.3.

Results on real estate

The gains and losses on real estate (both realized and unrealized) relate to the changes in fair
value of the investments in real estate.

2.32.4.

Net fair value change of derivatives

All changes in fair value are recognized in the income statement, unless the derivative has been
designated as a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge. Fair value movements of fair value hedge
instruments are offset by the fair value movements of the hedged item, and the resulting hedge
ineffectiveness, if any, is included in this line. In addition, the fair value movements of bifurcated
embedded derivatives are included in this line.

2.32.5.
Net fair value change on for account of policyholders financial assets
at fair value through profit or loss
Net fair value change on for account of policyholder financial assets at fair value through profit or
loss includes the fair value movements of investments held for account of policyholders. Refer to
note 2.7 ‘Investments for account of policyholders’. The net fair value change does not include
interest or dividend income.

2.32.6.

Net foreign currency result

Net foreign currency result comprises net foreign currency gains and losses.

Profit sharing
Profit sharing comprises the in the financial year reserved amounts for profit sharing to
policyholders.

Page 81 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Commission and expenses
Commission, staff and administration expenses incurred are allocated to the period to which they
relate. Acquisition expenses are deferred to the extent that they are recoverable and subsequently
amortized. See also note 2.12 ‘Deferred expenses’. VOBA is amortized as described in note 2.14.2.
‘Value of business acquired’.

Impairment charges/(reversals)
Impairment charges and reversals include impairments and reversals on investments in financial
assets, impairments and reversals on the valuation of insurance assets and other non-financial
assets and receivables. Impairment of deferred policy acquisition costs is included in note
Impairment charges.

Interest charges and related fees
Interest charges and related fees include interest expense on loans and other borrowings. Interest
expense on loans and other borrowings carried at amortized cost is recognized in the income
statement using the effective interest method. Fees and commissions that form an integral part of
the effective return on financial liabilities are recognized as an adjustment to the effective interest
rate of the instrument.

Corporate income tax
Corporate income tax is calculated at the current rate on the pre-tax profits over the financial year,
taking into account any temporary and permanent differences between the profit determination in
the financial statements and the profit calculation for tax purposes. Taxes comprise deferred and
current taxes on profit. Taxes on net income are recognized in the income statement, unless the
taxes relate to items that are recognized directly in other comprehensive income. In the latter case,
the taxes are also recognized in other comprehensive income.

Leases
Arrangements that do not take the form of a lease but convey a right to use an asset in return for
a payment are assessed at inception to determine whether they are, or contain, a lease. This
involves an assessment of whether fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a
specific asset and whether the purchaser (lessee) has the right to control the use of the underlying
asset.
Leases that do not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as
operating leases. Payments made under operating leases, where Aegon Nederland is the lessee,
are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Where Aegon Nederland is the lessor under an operating lease (for instance with regard to the
commercial leases on its real estate investment portfolio), the assets subject to the operating lease
arrangement are presented in the statement of financial position according to the nature of the
asset. Income from these leases are recognized in the income statement on a straight line basis
over the lease term, unless another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in
which use benefit derived from the leased asset is diminished.

Page 82 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Events after the reporting period
The financial statements are adjusted to reflect events that occurred between the balance sheet
date and the date when the financial statements are authorized for issue, provided they give
evidence of conditions that existed at the balance sheet date. Events that are indicative of
conditions that arose after the reporting date are disclosed, but do not result in an adjustment of
the financial statements themselves.

Page 83 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

3.

Critical accounting estimates and judgment in applying
accounting policies

Application of the accounting policies in the preparation of the financial statements requires
management to apply judgment involving assumptions and estimates concerning future results or
other developments, including the likelihood, timing or amount of future transactions or events.
There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from those estimates. Those
estimates are inherently subject to change and actual results will not could differ materially from
those estimates. Included among the material (or potentially material) reported amounts and
disclosures that require extensive use of estimates are: fair value of certain invested assets and
derivatives, deferred policy acquisition costs (please refer to paragraph 2.12), value of business
acquired and other purchased intangible assets (please refer to paragraph 2.14), goodwill (please
refer to paragraph 2.14), policyholder claims and benefits (please refer to paragraph 2.31),
insurance guarantees (please refer to paragraph 2.17), pension plans (please refer to paragraph
2.23), income taxes (please refer to paragraph 2.24) and the potential effects of resolving litigation
matters (please refer to paragraph 2.26). Accounting policies that are critical to the financial
statements presentation and that require complex estimates or significant judgment are described
in the following sections.

Going concern
Management estimates that the organization has the resources to continue the business for the
foreseeable future. Management is not aware of any material uncertainties which could give rise
to doubt the continuity of the business. The financial statements are therefore based on the
assumption that the organization will continue in business.

Changes in estimates
For Aegon’s life business the mortality tables and experience factors during 2017 have been
updated. This resulted in a decrease of the fair value of its longevity derivative of EUR 17 million,
an increase of the fair value of its longevity reinsurance contract of EUR 8 million and a decrease
of the guarantee provision of EUR 39 million. All amounts are before tax.
In addition, Aegon’s life business updated the surrender and paid up rates by adding the experience
for these assumptions from 2016. This resulted in an increase of the guarantee provision of EUR
33 million before tax.
For Aegon’s non-life business the model has been refined during 2017 for calculating the IBNR for
certain products related in the WIA provision. This resulted in a decrease of the WIA provision of
EUR 10 million before tax.
In addition, Aegon non-life business updated the assumption for unknown beneficiaries in the WIA
provision based on improved source data in 2017. It has been established that for claim provisions
older than 6 years from the measurement date in 2017, it is reasonably foreseeable that no further
claims can be expected. This resulted in a decrease of the provision of EUR 18 million before tax.
Other assumption updates for Aegon non-life business include new available disability data,
updated wage information and policyholders own risk percentage. These resulted in an additional
decrease of the WIA provision of EUR 9 million before tax. An updated assumption for the return
of premiums for non-claiming policyholders for AOV resulted in an increase of the AOV provision of
EUR 3 million before tax.

Page 84 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Valuation of assets and liabilities arising from life insurance
contracts
The liability for life insurance contracts with guaranteed or fixed account terms is generally based
on current assumptions or on the assumptions established at the inception of the contract. All
contracts are subject to liability adequacy testing which reflects management’s current estimates
of future cash flows (including investment returns). To the extent that the liability is based on
current assumptions, a change in assumptions will have an immediate impact on the income
statement. Also, if a change in assumption results in not passing the liability adequacy test, the
entire deficiency is recognized in the income statement. Unless shadow loss recognition is applied
refer to 2.17.7 ‘Liability Adequacy Testing’.
For the liability adequacy test Aegon Nederland uses mortality tables that take into account
expected future changes in life expectancy (the Aegon prospective mortality table).
The liability adequacy test uses a discount rate which converges linearly in 10 years to an Ultimate
Forward Rate of 4.25% (2016: 4.25%) from the last liquid point. The uniform last liquid point is
set at 30 years. The discount rate includes a liquidity spread. The rates used to discount the
insurance liabilities on Aegon Nederland’s statement of financial position are determined using
discount rates as contractually agreed, mainly 3% and 4%. Insurance liabilities for risk of
policyholders are generally shown at the balance sheet value of the related investments.
The assumptions in the liability adequacy test contain a margin for risk which represents the cost
of capital held for unhedgeable financial and underwriting risks.
Some insurance contracts without a guaranteed or fixed contractual term contain guaranteed
minimum benefits. Depending on the nature of the guarantee, it may either be bifurcated and
presented as a derivative or be reflected in the value of the insurance liability in accordance with
Dutch accounting principles. Given the dynamic and complex nature of these guarantees, stochastic
techniques under a variety of market return scenarios are often used for measurement purposes.
Such models require management to make numerous estimates based on historical experience and
market expectations. Changes in these estimates will immediately affect the income statement.
In addition, certain acquisition costs related to the sale of new policies and the acquisition of policies
already in force are recorded as DPAC and VOBA assets respectively and are amortized to the
income statement over time. If the assumptions relating to the future profitability of these policies
are not realized, the amortization of these costs could be accelerated and may even require write
offs due to irrecoverability.

Actuarial and economic assumptions
The main assumptions used in measuring DPAC, VOBA and the liabilities for life insurance contracts
with fixed or guaranteed terms relate to mortality, morbidity, investment returns, future expenses
and lapses.

Mortality tables
Mortality tables applied are generally developed based on a blend of company experience and
industry wide studies, taking into consideration product characteristics, own risk selection criteria,
target market and past experience. Mortality experience is monitored through regular studies, the
results of which are fed into the pricing cycle for new products and reflected in the liability
calculation when appropriate.
For contracts insuring survivorship, allowance is made for further longevity improvements.
Morbidity assumptions are based on own claims severity and frequency experience, adjusted where
appropriate for industry information.
Page 85 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

For the liability adequacy test Aegon Nederland uses best estimate assumptions regarding
mortality (which take into account expected future changes in life expectancy: the Aegon
prospective mortality table), morbidity, expenses, lapse, inflation and lapse. In 2017 several
model refinements have taken place as part of the regular cycle of methodology and assumption
setting. Main changes include an update of the population mortality methodology, mortality
experience factors, maintenance expense assumption update and related model update, and
investment expense assumption update. The impact of these changes was a decrease of the LAT
margin of approximately EUR 102 million and a similar negative impact on OCI before tax
through the application of shadow accounting.

Investment returns
Investment assumptions are prescribed by the regulator, market observable or based on
management’s future expectations. In the latter case, the anticipated future investment returns
are set by management, considering available market information and economic indicators.

Expenses
Starting point for the future operational costs is the current level of expenses. For the projection
of the operational costs a split is made between fixed and variable expenses. Further it is assumed
that a part of the portfolio will be outsourced as soon as outsourcing is more attractive.

Lapses
Surrender rates depend on product features, policy duration and external circumstances such as
the interest rate environment and competitor behavior. Reliable own experience, as well as
available industry wide data, are used in establishing assumptions. Lapse experience is correlated
to mortality and morbidity levels, as higher or lower levels of surrenders may indicate future claims
will be higher or lower than anticipated. Such correlations are accounted for in the mortality and
morbidity assumptions based on the emerging analysis of experience.

Actuarial assumption and model updates
Assumptions are reviewed periodically, and typically in the third quarter of the calendar year, based
on historical observable market data, including market transactions such as acquisitions and
reinsurance transactions, anticipated trends and legislative changes. Similarly, the models and
systems used for determining our liabilities are reviewed periodically and, if deemed necessary,
updated based on emerging best practices and available technology.

Valuation of liabilities arising from non-life insurance contracts
The main assumptions used in measuring liabilities for accident and health non-life insurance
contracts relate to morbidity (sick leave insurance and recoveries), mortality and future expenses.
The main assumptions used for the other non-life branches relate to claims statistics (including
incurred but not reported, or IBN(E)R), investment return and future expenses. IBN(E)R claims are
claims that have occurred but that have not yet been reported to Aegon Nederland.
Assumptions on morbidity are based on Aegon’s claims history, augmented where necessary with
industry information or data from the Dutch Association of Insurers or the Employee Insurances
Implementing Agency (UWV or Uitvoeringsinstituut Werknemers-verzekeringen) (with respect to
WIA).
Assumptions on claims statistics are based on Aegon’s claims history, adjusted where necessary
for expected benefits inflation.
Starting point for the future operational costs is the current level of expenses. For the projection
of the operational costs a split is made between fixed and variable expenses. Further it is assumed
that a part of the portfolio will be outsourced as soon as outsourcing is more attractive.
Page 86 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Lapse rates depend on product features, policy duration and external factors such as foreseeable
competitor and policyholder behavior. Company experience and data published by the industry are
used in establishing the assumptions.

Determination of fair value and fair value hierarchy
The following is a description of the methods of Aegon Nederland of determining fair value and a
quantification of its exposure to assets and liabilities measured at fair value.
Fair value is defined as the amount that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between knowledgeable and willing market participants
that are independent of each other and able to enter into the transaction at the measurement date
under current market conditions (i.e. an exit price at the measurement date from the perspective
of a market participant that holds the asset or owes the liability). A fair value measurement
assumes that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
(a) in the principal market for the asset or liability; or
(b) in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or
liability.
Aegon Nederland uses the following hierarchy for measuring and disclosing the fair value of assets
and liabilities:

Level I: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that
Aegon Nederland can access at the measurement date;

Level II: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level I that are observable for the
asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices
of identical or similar assets and liabilities) using valuation techniques for which all
significant inputs are based on observable market data; and

Level III: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data
(that is, unobservable inputs) using valuation techniques for which any significant input is
not based on observable market data.
The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price in an actively traded market. In the event that the
market for a financial instrument is not active or quoted market prices are not available, a valuation
technique is used.
The degree of judgment used in measuring the fair value of assets and liabilities generally inversely
correlates with the level of observable valuation inputs. Aegon Nederland maximizes the use of
observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable valuation inputs when measuring fair
value. Financial instruments, for example, with quoted prices in active markets generally have
more pricing observability and therefore less judgment is used in measuring fair value. Conversely,
financial instruments for which no quoted prices are available have less observability and are
measured at fair value using valuation models or other pricing techniques that require more
judgment.
The assets and liabilities categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest input
that is significant to the fair value measurement.
The judgment as to whether a market is active may include, although not necessarily
determinative, lower transaction volumes, reduced transaction sizes and, in some cases, no
observable trading activity for short periods. In inactive markets, assurance is obtained that the
transaction price provides evidence of fair value or determined that the adjustments to transaction
prices are necessary to measure the fair value of the instrument.

Page 87 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

The majority of valuation techniques employ only observable market data, and so the reliability of
the fair value measurement is high. However, certain assets and liabilities are valued on the basis
of valuation techniques that feature one or more significant market inputs that are unobservable
and, for such assets and liabilities; the derivation of fair value is more judgmental. An instrument
is classified in its entirety as valued using significant unobservable inputs (Level III) if, in the
opinion of management, a significant proportion of the instrument’s carrying amount is driven by
unobservable inputs. “Unobservable” in this context means that there is little or no current market
data available from which to determine the price at which an at arm’s length transaction would be
likely to occur. It generally does not mean that there is no market data available at all upon which
to base a determination of fair value. The use of different methodologies or assumptions to
determine the fair value of certain instruments (both financial and non-financial) could result in a
different estimate of fair value at the reporting date.
To operationalize the fair value hierarchy of Aegon Nederland, individual instruments (both financial
and non-financial) are assigned a fair value level based primarily on the type of instrument and the
source of the prices (e.g. index, third-party pricing service, broker, internally modelled).
Periodically, this logic for assigning fair value levels is reviewed to determine if any modifications
are necessary in the context of the current market environment.

Goodwill
Goodwill is reviewed and tested for impairment under a fair value approach. Goodwill must be
tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently as a result of an event or change in
circumstances that would indicate an impairment charge may be necessary. The recoverable
amount is the higher of the value in use and fair value less costs to sell for a cash-generating unit.
Impairment testing requires the determination of the value in use or fair value less costs for each
of the identified cash generating units of Aegon Nederland. The valuation utilized the best available
information, including assumptions and projections considered reasonable and supportable by
management. The assumptions used in the valuation involve significant judgments and estimates.

Valuation of defined benefit plans
The liabilities or assets recognized in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit
plans is the difference between the present value of the projected defined benefit obligation at the
balance sheet date and the fair value of plan assets. Assets held by Aegon Nederland backing the
retirement benefits do not meet the definition of plan assets and as such were not deducted from
the defined benefit obligation. Instead, these assets are recognized as general account assets.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated
future cash flows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the
currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity that approximate the
terms of the related pension liability. Actuarial assumptions used in the measurement of the liability
include the discount rate, estimated future wage inflation and estimated future pension increases.
To the extent that actual experience deviates from these assumptions, the valuation of defined
benefit plans and the level of pension expenses recognized in the future may be affected.

Page 88 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Recognition of deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets are established for the tax benefit related to deductible temporary differences,
carry forward of unused tax losses and carry forwards of unused tax credits when in the judgment
of management it is more likely than not that Aegon Nederland will receive the tax benefits. Since
there is no absolute assurance that these assets will ultimately be realized, management reviews
the deferred tax positions of Aegon Nederland periodically to determine if it is more likely than not
that the assets will be realized. Periodic reviews include, among other things, the nature and
amount of the taxable income and deductible expenses, the expected timing when certain assets
will be used or liabilities will be required to be reported and the reliability of historical profitability
of businesses expected to provide future earnings. Furthermore, management considers taxplanning strategies it can utilize to increase the likelihood that the tax assets will be realized. These
strategies are also considered in the periodic reviews.

Recognition of provisions
Provisions are established for contingent liabilities when it is probable that a past event has given
rise to a present obligation or loss and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Management
exercises judgment in evaluating the probability that a loss will be incurred. The estimate of the
amount of a loss requires management judgment in the selection of a proper calculation model and
the specific assumptions related to the particular exposure.

Page 89 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

4.

Risk management
Governance

The main objective of the risk management structure at Aegon Nederland is to protect
stakeholders, including customers, shareholders and employees, against ongoing obstacles to
achieving their aims. The Board of Directors and management recognize the importance of efficient
and effective risk management systems.
Aegon Nederland has a risk management structure in line with the Internal Control Framework of
Aegon N.V. The risk management function has been designed with specific attention to operating,
financial and underwriting risks.
Aegon Nederland and each of its insurance subsidiaries have its own Board of Directors and
Supervisory Board. Aegon Bank also has its own Board of Directors and a Supervisory Board. The
Board of Directors of Aegon Nederland participates in the Board of Directors of its insurance
subsidiaries and in the Supervisory Board of its banking subsidiary. Reports are made to the
shareholder and the regulator in accordance with the terms of the license.

Capital management and solvency
4.2.1. Insurance activities
Introduction
As from January 1, 2016 the Solvency II regulatory framework was introduced.
Please note that numbers and ratios related to Solvency II as disclosed in this paragraph represent
Aegon Nederland’s estimate and are not final until filed with the regulator and subject to
supervisory review. Aegon Nederland’s factor for the loss absorbing capacity of deferred taxes is
75%. This factor is assessed on a quarterly basis, following DNB guidance, while monitoring effects
of upcoming corporate tax changes in the Netherlands and LAC DT related proposals in the SII
regulation consultation paper of EIOPA.
The Solvency II capital ratios of Aegon Nederland do not include any contingent liability potentially
arising from unit-linked products sold, issued or advised on by Aegon Nederland in the past as the
potential liability cannot be reliably quantified at this point.
Strategic importance
Aegon Nederland’s approach towards capital management plays a vital role in supporting the
execution of Aegon Nederland’s strategy. Aegon Nederland’s capital management priorities include
the shift of capital to products that offer higher growth prospects and return prospects, the shift
from capital intensive spread business to capital light fee business and from defined benefit plans
to defined contribution plans for our clients.
Management of capital
Disciplined risk and capital management support Aegon Nederland’s decisions in deploying the
capital that is generated in Aegon Nederland’s businesses. Aegon Nederland balances the funding
of new business growth with the funding required to ensure that Aegon Nederland’s obligations
towards policyholders are always adequately met.
Aegon Nederland’s goal is to maintain a strong financial position and be able to sustain losses from
adverse business and market conditions. The company’s overall capital management strategy is
based on adequate solvency capital, capital quality, and the use of leverage.

Page 90 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Aegon Nederland’s Enterprise Risk Management framework ensures that Aegon Nederland and its
subsidiaries are adequately capitalized and that Aegon Nederland’s obligations towards
policyholders are always adequately met. As a specific part of this larger framework, Aegon
Nederland’s capital management framework builds on a set of key pillars: the use of internal target
capital management zones and supported by robust risk and capital monitoring processes that
timely triggers and escalates interventions if and when needed to ensure that capital is always
being managed towards these internal target ranges and is prevented from falling below the
minimum regulatory capital requirements.
Adequate capitalization
The introduction of Solvency II on January 1, 2016, meant a change in the regulatory capital
requirements in EU-domiciled legal entities and therefore had an impact on the capitalization levels
used to assess capital adequacy of Aegon Nederland. Aegon Nederland has updated its target
capitalization levels under its capital management framework accordingly. During 2016 and 2017
all regulated entities within Aegon Nederland complied with externally imposed minimum capital
requirements.
The capitalization of the Aegon Nederland and its operating units is managed in relation to the
most stringent of local regulatory requirements, rating agency requirements and/or self-imposed
criteria. Aegon Nederland manages its Solvency II capital in relation to the required capital. Under
Aegon Nederland’s capital management framework the own funds are managed such that the
Group Solvency II ratio remains within the target range of 150% - 190%. This target range has
been updated in Q3 2017 (previous target range: 130% - 150%) in line with a revision of Aegon
Nederland’s group capital management policy.
In the following table a reconciliation between the group equity under IFRS equity and the own
funds under Solvency II is presented.

Shareholders' Equity (IFRS)
Revaluations
Available own funds

31-12-

31-12-

2017*

2016

6.851

5.487

-367

-431

6.484

5.056

*The available own funds for 2017 is an estimate, is not final until filed with the regulator and
subject to supervisory review. Aegon Bank is included in the calculation of the own funds.
The increase of available own funds of Aegon Nederland is mainly due to the capital contribution
of EUR 1.000 million and the sale of UMG.
The Solvency II revaluations stem from the difference in valuation between IFRS-EU and Solvency
II frameworks, which can be grouped into two categories:
-

Items that are not recognized under Solvency II. The most relevant examples of this category
include Goodwill, DPAC and other intangible assets;
Items that have a different valuation treatment between IFRS-EU and Solvency II. Solvency
II is a market consistent framework hence all assets and liabilities are to be presented at fair
value while IFRS-EU also includes other valuation treatments in addition to fair value. The
most relevant examples of this category include Loans and Mortgages, Reinsurance
Recoverables, Deferred tax assets balances and Technical provisions.

Page 91 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Minimum regulatory solvency requirements
Insurance laws and regulations contain minimum regulatory capital requirements of 100%
Solvency Capital Requirement (SCR) for insurance companies in the European Union. For insurance
companies in the European Union, Solvency II also defines a lower capital requirement, the
Minimum Capital Requirement (MCR). An irreparable breach of the MCR would lead to the
withdrawal of the insurance license.
With the introduction of Solvency II for EEA countries, Aegon monitors these minimum regulatory
capital requirements as the level around which the regulator will formally require management to
provide regulatory recovery plans. For insurance companies in the European Union this is set at
100% SCR.
During 2017, Aegon Nederland and its main subsidiaries continued to comply with the minimum
regulatory solvency requirements, driven by the fact that Aegon Nederland’s internal target capital
levels are well above 100% SCR levels.
Capital management
Aegon Nederland is subject to legal restrictions on the amount of dividends it can distribute to its
shareholder. Refer to the disclosure for capital restrictions included in the statutory financial
statements in note 8.2 ‘Statement of changes in equity’. In case of negative balances for individual
reserves legally to be retained, no distributions can be made out of retained earnings to the level
of these negative amounts.
The ability of Aegon Nederland's main subsidiaries, principally insurance companies, to pay
dividends to Aegon Nederland is constrained by the internal thresholds that Aegon set to adequately
capitalize its subsidiaries. These levels exceed the levels set by DNB and governed by DNB. Based
on the capitalization level of the subsidiary, DNB is able to restrict and/or prohibit the transfer of
dividends to Aegon Nederland. In addition, the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends to the holding
company can be constrained by the need for these subsidiaries to have sufficient shareholders'
equity as determined by law.
The capitalization level and shareholders' equity of the subsidiaries can be impacted by various
factors (e.g. general economic conditions, capital markets risks, underwriting risk factors, changes
in government regulations, legal and arbitrational proceedings). To mitigate the impact of such
factors on the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends, the subsidiaries hold additional capital in
excess of the levels required by DNB, which is reflected in Aegon Nederland’s internal target
capitalization ranges.
The target range for the insurance subsidiaries of Aegon Nederland is set at 145 – 175% for Aegon
Levensverzekering and Aegon Schadeverzekering, 165%-235% for Optas and 155%-205% for
Spaarkas. As per December 31, 2017, the actual solvency level of the subsidiaries is above the
target range. In 2016, all target ranges were 130%-150%.
Capital quality
All capital of Aegon Nederland qualifies as unrestricted Tier 1 capital. Available own funds are equal
to eligible own funds.

4.2.2. Banking activities
Aegon Nederland’s banking activities are executed via its subsidiary Aegon Bank N.V. Pursuant to
guidance issued by the Dutch Central Bank, the level of capital is subject to certain requirements.
Aegon Bank’s capital is reviewed against its on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet assets. These
assets are weighted according to their risk level. The minimum total capital ratio (also known as
the BIS ratio) is 8%. Due to the introduction of CRD IV the CET1 ratio is considered a better
measure for capital management purposes than the BIS ratio. During the year Aegon bank fully
complied with the required CET 1 ratio. At yearend the CET 1 ratio amounts to 20.4% (2016:
20.4%).
Page 92 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Product information
4.3.1. Life & Savings
Aegon Nederland provides a range of individual savings products, mortgage loans and life insurance
and personal protection products and services, including traditional, universal and term life. Based
on earnings Life & Savings is Aegon Nederland's largest line of business.

Products
Endowment insurance
Endowment insurance includes several products that accumulate a cash value. Premiums are paid
at inception or over the term of the contract.
Accumulation products pay benefits on the policy maturity date, subject to survival of the insured.
Most policies also pay death benefits should the insured die during the term of the contract. Death
benefits may be stipulated in the policy or depend on the gross premiums paid to date. Premiums
and amounts insured are established at inception of the contract. The amount insured can be
increased as a result of profit sharing, if provided for under the terms and conditions of the product.
Minimum interest guarantees exist for all generations of accumulation products written, except for
universal life products, for which premiums are invested solely in equity funds. Older generation
products contained a 4% guarantee when sold. In 1999, the guarantee for new products decreased
to 3%; and in 2013, the guarantee on new products was reduced to 0%.
Various profit-sharing mechanism exist. Bonuses are either paid in cash (usually for a pension, as
described below) or used to increase the sum insured. A common form of profit sharing is to set
bonus levels by reference to external indexes based on pre-defined portfolios of Dutch government
bonds. The bonds included in the portfolios have different remaining maturities and interest rates.
Together they are considered an approximation of the long-term rate of return on high-quality
Dutch financial investments.

Term and whole life insurance
Term life insurance pays out death benefits should the insured die during the term of the contract.
Whole life insurance pays out death benefits in the event of death, regardless of when this occurs.
Premiums and amounts insured are established at inception of the contract and are guaranteed.
The amount insured may be adjusted at the request of the policyholder. Term life insurance policies
do not include profit-sharing arrangements. Part of the whole life insurance portfolio has profitsharing features, which are based on external indexes or the return of related assets.

Annuity insurance
Annuity insurance includes products in the accumulation phase and products in the de accumulation
phase. Pay-out commences at a date determined in the policy, and usually continues until the
death of the insured or the beneficiary. Premiums are paid at inception of the policy or during the
accumulation phase of the policy. The contracts contain minimum guarantees of 3% or 4%. Interest
rebates are given on both single and regular premium annuity insurance, and may be based on a
portfolio of Dutch government bonds – although other calculation benchmarks may also be applied.
There are also profit-sharing schemes set by reference to external indexes based on pre-defined
portfolios of Dutch government bonds.

Page 93 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Variable unit-linked products
These products have a minimum benefit guarantee, except for those premiums invested in equity
funds. The initial guarantee period is ten years. Tontine plans are unit-linked contracts with a
specific bonus structure. At the end of the year in which the insured dies, the policy balance is
distributed to surviving policyholders that belong to the same tontine series, rather than to the
policyholder's estate. A death benefit is paid to the dependents in the event that the policyholder
dies before the policy matures. Tontine policyholders may invest premiums in a number of Aegon
funds. Aegon Nederland manages tontine plans, but no longer sells them.

Mortgage loans
At present, Aegon Nederland mostly offers 'annuity mortgages'. Before 2013, Aegon Nederland
also offered interest-only, unit-linked and savings mortgage loans, and is continuing to do so for
existing mortgage loans that are being renegotiated. Mortgage loans are partly funded externally.
Besides residential mortgage-backed securities in Saecure – Aegon's Dutch residential mortgagebacked securities program and private placements, the mortgage production for fee based business
is concentrated in the Dutch Mortgage Fund (DMF). DMF has specifically been created, in
cooperation with Aegon Asset Management, to provide third-party funded mortgages. DMF offers
institutional investors the ability to invest in Dutch residential mortgages granted by Aegon
Nederland for the account and risk of DMF. The fund pays Aegon Nederland a fee for granting and
managing the mortgages. The fee based business complements the spread business in which the
mortgages are hold by Aegon Nederland for own account and risk.

Savings and Banking products
Aegon Bank aims to achieve its vision and ambition through two business units: Aegon Bank and
Knab.
Aegon Bank focuses on the ‘income’ and ‘housing’ market, together with seeking to reinforce the
Aegon Nederland’s-wide pensions offering. Customers are increasingly having to make provision
for their current and future income and wealth since the government changed the rules for pension
provisions.
The bank offers clear, simple and high quality products. These include both savings products
focused on security, and investment products focused on a suitable risk/return profile that fits the
customer’s need and risk appetite. Processes are designed in such a way as to provide the
maximum benefit to customers, and customer service is based on the principles of easy access,
speed, first time right, convenience, transparency and understanding.
Aegon Bank’s focus is on customers whose income and wealth is in the middle-market, in line with
Aegon Nederland’s target group. Products are distributed directly to our customers. For more
complex ‘advice’ products, independent financial advisers continue to be a very important
distribution channel for Aegon Bank. Aegon Bank’s activities mainly focus on ‘Banksparen’
products’. 'Banksparen' is a tax-deferred savings product in which amounts are deposited in a
'locked' bank account. The amount saved is available after a certain period of time for specific
purposes such as for a supplementary pension or paying off a mortgage.
Knab aims to be the most customer-oriented bank in the Netherlands, by informing customers
about their personal financial situation and enabling them to achieve their financial goals. It reflects
the core of Aegon’s purpose, offering customers both insight and an overview of their finances
through its financial planning tools and alerts. Furthermore, Knab offers a wide range of banking
and investment products with a focus on wealth accumulation and payment services.

Investment contracts
Investment contracts are investment products that offer returns and generate fee income from the
performance of the investments.

Page 94 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

4.3.2. Pensions
The Pensions business provides a variety of pension products to pension funds and companies both
full service contracts and low cost subscriptions.

Products
Aegon Nederland provides full-service pension solutions, administration-only services and life or
disability insurances to company and industry pension funds, large companies and owners of small
and medium-sized companies.
Separate account group contracts are large group contracts that have an individually-determined
asset investment underlying the pension contract. For older generation products, a guarantee
consists of profit sharing with a contractual interest rate of 3% or 4%. At present, the contracts
offered to clients hold a guarantee of 3% or market interest rate, and Aegon always relates
guarantee cost to the current market interest rate. If profit sharing turns into a loss, the minimum
guarantee becomes effective, but the loss in any given year is carried forward to be offset against
future surpluses. In general, the guarantee is dependent on the life of the insured in order that
their pension benefit is guaranteed. Some large group contracts also receive part of the technical
results for mortality risk and disability risk. The contract period for these types of contracts is
typically five years and the tariffs, cost loadings and risk premiums are generally fixed over this
period.
Aegon Nederland also offers products for small and medium-sized companies, both defined benefit
and defined contribution products on a subscription basis. These products reduce complexity and
enable Aegon to adapt the tariffs, cost loadings and risk premiums annually. Customers also have
the opportunity on an annual basis to decide as to whether they wish to continue with their
subscription. An increasing group of customers are currently becoming more interested in these
low cost and flexible solutions which results in a significant flow from separate account and other
5-year contracts to subscription products.
These subscription products include an all-in defined benefit product with guaranteed benefits. The
expected profit for the customer and anticipated investment returns are taken into account in the
pricing of the product. Customers may contribute funds for future pension increases to a separate
account. Next to defined benefit subscriptions Aegon Nederland also offers defined contribution
products on a subscription basis. Profit sharing is based on investment returns on specified funds.
All positive and negative risks, such as investment risk and longevity risk, are attributed to the
employees.
Defined benefit group contracts or defined benefit subscriptions both provide a guarantee on the
benefits paid. The longevity risk therefore lies with Aegon Nederland.
A decrease in the number of company and industry pension funds in the Netherlands is continuing.
By law, the assets and liabilities of a terminated pension fund must be transferred to another
pension provider. Aegon Nederland offers a pension fund buy-out product for terminating pension
funds. It takes on the guaranteed or non-guaranteed liabilities, with or without annual pension
increases, and receives a lump-sum premium upfront. All risks related to the transferred benefits
are carried by Aegon Nederland. Current market conditions lead to significantly fewer buy-outs in
de Dutch market than in recent years.
On December 22, 2015, legislation was passed that enables companies to set up 'Algemeen
Pensioen Fonds' (General Pension Fund). On June 21, 2016, Aegon launched the first such fund
called ‘Stap’ (a separate legal entity), catering to pension funds that no longer wished to continue
on an individual basis due to high legal requirements and costs. Stap offers pension solutions to
clients with which no guarantees are provided, and the investment benefits lie with the participants.
Aegon Nederland provides fee-based services for the Fund and receives a fee for their services.

Page 95 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

4.3.3. Non-life
The Non-life business consists of general insurance and accident and health insurance.

Products
General insurance
During 2015, Aegon revised its general insurance strategy and consequently designated its
commercial portfolio (including the authorized agent and co-insurance distribution channels) as
non-core. Early in 2016, the commercial portfolio was sold to Allianz Benelux NV. The portfolio was
transferred as per July 1, 2016. After this divestment, Aegon Nederland focuses exclusively on
private lines in general insurance. The products offered provide cover for property, motor, travel,
legal aid and casualty.

Accident and income protection insurance
Aegon Nederland offers disability and sick leave products to employers that cover sick leave
payments to employees not covered by social security, and for which the employer bears the risk.

4.3.4. Distribution
The main distribution channel owned by Aegon Nederland is Unirobe Meeùs Group, through which
it offers financial advice to customers, including the sale of insurance, pensions, mortgage loans,
financing, and savings and investment products. On October 31, 2017, Aegon Nederland sold its
shares in UMG as part of its strategic objective to optimize its portfolio across its businesses. Based
on materiality considerations the sale of UMG is not presented as discontinued operations. After
the sale of UMG the distribution channel owned by Aegon Nederland consists of Nedasco B.V. and
van Nierop Assuradeuren N.V.

Risk management approach
4.4.1. IFRS sensitivities
Results of Aegon Nederland’s sensitivity analysis are presented in the following paragraphs to show
the estimated sensitivity of net income and equity to various scenarios. For each type of market
risk, the analysis shows how net income and equity would be affected by changes in the relevant
risk variable that were reasonably possible at the reporting date. For each sensitivity test the
impact of a reasonably possible change in a single factor is shown. Management action is taken
into account to the extent that it is part of Aegon Nederland’s regular policies and procedures, such
as established hedging programs. However, incidental management actions that would require a
change in policies and procedures are not considered.
Each sensitivity analysis reflects the extent to which the shock tested would affect management’s
critical accounting estimates and judgment in applying Aegon Nederland’s accounting policies2.
Market-consistent assumptions underlying the measurement of non-listed assets and liabilities are
adjusted to reflect the shock tested. Although management’s short-term assumptions may change
if there is a reasonably possible change in a risk factor, long-term assumptions will generally not
be revised unless there is evidence that the movement is permanent. This fact is reflected in the
sensitivity analysis provided below.

2Please

refer to note 3 for a description of the critical accounting estimates and judgments.
Page 96 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

The accounting mismatch inherent in IFRS is also apparent in the reported sensitivities. A change
in interest rates has an immediate impact on the carrying amount of assets measured at fair value.
However, the shock will not have a similar effect on the carrying amount of the related insurance
liabilities that are measured based on prudent assumptions. Consequently, the different
measurement bases for assets and liabilities lead to increased volatility in IFRS net income and
equity. Aegon Nederland has classified a significant part of its investment portfolio as ‘availablefor-sale’, which is one of the main reasons why the economic shocks tested have a different impact
on net income than on equity. Unrealized gains and losses on these assets are not recognized in
the income statement but are recorded directly into the revaluation reserves in equity, unless
impaired. As a result, economic sensitivities predominantly impact equity but leave net income
unaffected.
The sensitivities do not reflect what the net income for the period would have been if risk variables
had been different because the analysis is based on the exposures in existence at the reporting
date rather than on those that actually occurred during the year. Nor are the results of the
sensitivities intended to be an accurate prediction of Aegon Nederland’s future equity or earnings.
The analysis does not take into account the impact of future new business, which is an important
component of Aegon Nederland’s future earnings. It also does not consider all methods available
to management to respond to changes in the financial environment, such as changing investment
portfolio allocations or adjusting premiums and crediting rates. Furthermore, the results of the
analysis cannot be extrapolated for wider variations since effects do not tend to be linear. No risk
management process can clearly predict future results.
The sensitivity analysis below solely contains investments for general account and guarantees
issued by Aegon Nederland. Investments for risk of policyholders are for the account and risk of
third parties and do not lead to an increase in Aegon Nederland’s exposures, other than in the form
of possible guarantees. See note 8 ‘Derivatives’ and note 19 ‘Guarantees’ for more information on
the guarantees issued.

4.4.2. Currency exchange rate risk
Aegon Nederland faces limited currency exchange risk on policies denominated in a currency other
than the euro. Currency risk in the investment portfolios is managed using asset liability matching
principles and hedged as far as possible.

4.4.3. Interest rate risk
Aegon Nederland bears interest rate risk with many of its products. In cases where cash flows are
highly predictable, investing in assets that closely match the cash flow profile of the liabilities can
offset this risk. For some products, cash flows are less predictable as a result of policyholder actions
that can be affected by the level of interest rates.
In periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals may
increase. Premiums in flexible premium policies may decrease as policyholders seek investments
with higher expected returns. This activity may result in cash payments by Aegon Nederland
requiring the sale of invested assets at a time when the prices of those assets are adversely affected
by the increase in market interest rates; this may result in realizing investment losses. These cash
payments to policyholders result in a decrease in total invested assets and a decrease in net
income. Among other things, early withdrawals may also require accelerated amortization of DPAC,
which in turn reduces net income.

Page 97 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

During periods of sustained low interest rates, Aegon Nederland may not be able to preserve
margins as a result of minimum interest rate guarantees and minimum guaranteed crediting rates
provided on policies. Also, investment earnings may be lower because the interest earnings on new
fixed-income investments are likely to have declined with the market interest rates. Mortgages and
redeemable bonds in the investment portfolio are more likely to be repaid as borrowers seek to
borrow at lower interest rates and Aegon Nederland may be required to reinvest the proceeds in
securities bearing lower interest rates. Accordingly, net income declines as a result of a decrease
in the spread between returns on the investment portfolio and the interest rates either credited to
policyholders or assumed in reserves.
Aegon Nederland manages interest rate risk closely, taking into account all of the complexity
regarding policyholder behavior and management action. Aegon Nederland employs sophisticated
interest rate measurement techniques and actively uses derivatives and other risk mitigation tools
to closely manage its interest rate risk exposure. Aegon Nederland operates an Interest Rate Risk
policy that limits the amount of interest rate risk to which Aegon Nederland is exposed. All
derivative use is governed by Aegon Nederland’s Derivative Use Policy.
Under IFRS, unrealized gains in the value of the insurance liabilities as a consequence of a rise in
interest rates are not reflected in net income and equity, except when the liability adequacy test
shows a deficit and guarantee provisions. If interest rates fall, there will be unrealized gains on
certain investments which positively affect the net income and equity. If the liability adequacy test
shows that the insurance liability in the statement of financial position is in a deficit position, this
has to be supplemented through the revaluation reserves (shadow accounting) or through the
income statement.
The following table shows interest rates at the end of each of the last five years. For more
information on derivatives, see note 4.4.10 ‘Derivatives risk’.
Interest rates at the end of each of the last five years

2017
3-month US Libor

2016

2015

2014

2013

1,69%

1,00%

0,61%

0,26%

0,25%

-0,33%

-0,32%

-0,13%

0,08%

0,29%

10-year US Treasury

2,41%

2,44%

2,27%

2,17%

3,03%

10-year Dutch

0,52%

0,35%

0,79%

0,67%

2,23%

3-month Euribor

government

Page 98 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Sensitivity of interest rates
The sensitivity analysis in the table below shows an estimate of the effect of a parallel shift in the
yield curves on net income and shareholders' equity arising from the impact on general account
investments and offset due to liabilities from insurance and investment contracts. In general,
increases in interest rates are beneficial to Aegon Nederland. However, timing and valuation
differences between assets and liabilities may cause short-term reductions in net income or
solvency ratios as rates rise. Rising interest rates would also cause the fair value of the availablefor-sale bond portfolio to decline and the level of unrealized gains could become too low to support
recoverability of the full deferred tax asset triggering an allowance charge to income. The offsetting
economic gain on the insurance and investment contracts is however not fully reflected in the
sensitivities because many of these liabilities are not measured at fair value. Over time, the
medium-term reduction in net income due to rising interest rates would be offset by higher net
income in later years, everything else remaining equal. Therefore, higher interest rates are not
considered a long-term risk to Aegon Nederland. However, a long sustained period of low interest
rates will erode net income due to lower returns earned on reinvestments.

Parallel movement of

2017

2016

Estimated approximate effect

Estimated approximate effect

yield curve
Net income
Shift up 100 basis points
Shift down 100 basis

Equity

Net income

Equity

-615

-722

-167

-335

734

-544

45

-794

points

The liability adequacy test (LAT) showed a deficit in 2017. An upward shock would lead to a surplus
in the liability adequacy test, thus to the reversal of the accounted deficit, positively impacting
equity. This impact is outweighed by a reduction of the market value of the fixed income portfolio.
A downward shock would lead to a further increase of the deficit of the LAT, which outweighs the
positive impact of the increasing market value of the fixed income portfolio. For the downward
shock, the difference in impact is primarily due to the difference compared to 2016 that was
available for absorption (through revaluation reserve as part of shadow accounting) in the
downward scenario;
The impact on net income compared to 2016 increased due to a change in the hedging strategy on
guarantee provisions.
Impact of own credit spread on guarantees
The effect of the decrease in the own credit spread during 2017 (2016: increase) was an increase
of the liability for guarantees (financial guarantees and minimum investment return guarantees)
by EUR 379 million (2016: decrease of EUR 216 million). Had the own credit spread been nil, the
liability for guarantees would have been EUR 402 million higher (2016: EUR 918 million higher).

Page 99 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

4.4.4. Credit risk
As premiums and deposits are received, these funds are invested to pay for future policyholder
obligations. For general account products, Aegon Nederland typically bears the risk for investment
performance which is equal to the return of principal and interest. Aegon Nederland is exposed to
credit risk on its general account fixed-income portfolio (debt securities, mortgages and private
placements), over-the-counter derivatives and reinsurance contracts. Some issuers have defaulted
on their financial obligations for various reasons, including bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, downturn
of the economy, downturn in real estate values, operational failure and fraud. During financial
downturns, Aegon Nederland can incur defaults or other reductions in the value of these securities
and loans, which could have a material adverse effect on Aegon Nederland's business, results of
operations and financial condition. Investments for account of policyholders are excluded as the
policyholder bears the credit risk associated with the investments.
The table that follows shows the Aegon Nederland’s maximum exposure to credit risk from
investments in general account financial assets, as well as general account derivatives and
reinsurance assets, collateral held and net exposure. Please refer to note 42 ‘Transfer of financial
assets’ for further information on collateral given, which may expose Aegon Nederland to credit
risk.

Page 100 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Positions for general account in the balance sheet

2017

Maximum

Collateral received

Net

exposure
credit risk

exposure
Cash

Securities

Amounts in EUR million

Real

Guarantees

Master

Surplus

estate

**

netting

collateral

Total

agreement
Shares

2.498

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2.498

Debt securities

19.787

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

19.787

Mortgage loans *

26.439

2.425

-

33.993

361

-

-10.629

26.150

290

3.590

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

3.590

165

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

165

30

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

30

4.177

62

29

-

-

4.090

-4

4.178

-

-

490

Private loans
Other loans
Other financial assets
Derivatives with pos. values
Long-term loans and group loans
Reinsurance assets
Total

490
16

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

16

57.193

2.487

29

33.993

361

4.090

-10.632

30.327

26.866

*The base-adjustment of EUR 363 million has been excluded from the mortgages loans as this is a non-credit risk bearing item.
** Guarantees for mortgage loans refer to the NHG guarantee. The NHG guarantees are subordinated to other collateral and is based on historically realized NHG guarantee
payments capped at the maximum loan value.

Page 101 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2016

Maximum

Collateral received

Net

exposure
credit risk

exposure
Cash

Securities

Amounts in EUR million

Real

Guarantees

Master

Surplus

estate

**

netting

collateral

Total

agreement
Shares

1.556

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1.556

Debt securities

22.521

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

22.521

Mortgage loans *

24.853

2.308

-

29.829

732

-

-8.417

24.452

400

3.124

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

3.124

Other loans

147

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

147

Other financial assets

390

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

390

5.384

421

153

-

-

4.721

-

5.294

89

-

511

Private loans

Derivatives with pos. values
Long-term loans and group loans
Reinsurance assets
Total

511
21

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

21

58.506

2.728

153

29.829

732

4.721

-8.417

29.746

28.760

*The base-adjustment of EUR 504 million has been excluded from the mortgages loans as this is a non-credit risk bearing item.
** Guarantees for mortgage loans refer to the NHG guarantee. The NHG guarantees are subordinated to other collateral and is based on historically realized NHG guarantee
payments capped at the maximum loan value.

Page 102 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Shares: mainly money market and short-term investments
The collateral reported for the money market and short-term investments are related to tri-party
repurchase agreements (repos). Within tri-party repo’s Aegon Nederland invests under short-term
reverse repurchase agreements and the counterparty posts collateral to a third party custodian.
The collateral posted is typically high-quality short-term securities and is only accessible to Aegon
Nederland in the event the counterparty defaults.
Debt securities
Collateral for structured securities such as ABS, RMBS and CMBS is not included in the table above.
Whilst collateral for structured securities is present, the collateral is however related to the cash
flows for paying the principal and interest on the securities and not to mitigate credit risk. The
credit risk management relating to structured securities is disclosed in the credit risk concentrations
section of this note.
Mortgage loans
The real estate collateral for mortgage loans comprises mainly of residential properties. The
collateral received for residential mortgages is measured as the foreclosure value which is indexed
periodically.
Cash collateral for mortgage loans includes the savings that have been received to redeem the
underlying mortgage loans at redemption date. These savings are part of the credit side of the
statement of financial position, but reduce the credit risk for the mortgage loan as a whole.
A substantial part of Aegon Nederland’s Dutch residential mortgage portfolio benefits from
guarantees by a Dutch government-backed trust (Stichting Waarborgfonds Eigen Woning) through
the Dutch Mortgage Guarantee program (NHG). These guarantees cover all principal losses, missed
interest payments and foreclosure costs incurred upon termination and settlement of defaulted
mortgage loans when lender-specific terms and conditions of the guarantee are met. When not
fully met, the trust may pay claims in part or in full, depending on the severity of the breach of
terms and conditions. For each specific loan, the guarantee amortizes in line with an equivalent
annuity mortgage. When the remaining loan balance at default does not exceed the amortized
guarantee, it covers the full loss under its terms and conditions. Any loan balance in excess of this
decreasing guarantee profile serves as a first loss position for the lender. For NHG-backed mortgage
loans originated after January 1, 2014, a 10% lender-incurred haircut applies on realized losses on
each defaulted loan.
The ‘surplus collateral’ column represents the surplus value of individual mortgage loans (where
the value of the real estate exceeds the value of the mortgage loan) as Aegon Nederland is not
entitled to this part of the collateral.
Derivatives
The master netting agreements column in the table relates to derivative liability positions which
are used in Aegon’s credit risk management. The offset in the master netting agreements column
includes balances where there is a legally enforceable right of offset, but no intention to settle
these balances on a net basis under normal circumstances. As a result, there is a net exposure for
credit risk management purposes. However, as there is no intention to settle these balances on a
net basis, they do not qualify for net presentation for accounting purposes.
Reinsurance assets
The collateral related to the reinsurance assets include assets in trust that are held by the reinsurer
for the benefit of Aegon. The assets in trust can be accessed to pay policyholder benefits in the
event the reinsurers fail to perform under the terms of their contract.
Collateral
Aegon Nederland has no assets received as non-cash collateral which can be sold or which
themselves can serve as collateral without the owner of the assets being in default.
Page 103 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Aegon Nederland also receives cash collateral or other financial assets for financial assets that have
been transferred to another party under reverse repurchase agreements and securities lending
transactions. See note 42 ‘Transfers of financial assets’ for more information.

Credit risk management
Losses as a result of credit risk are a natural part of investing in fixed-income securities. The
amount of and compensation for this risk are related. A significant management measure to avoid
excessive credit risk is to diversify and limit exposure to individual issuers.
Aegon Nederland operates a Credit Name Limit Policy (CNLP) under which limits are placed on the
aggregate exposure that it has to any one counterparty. These limits are set by Aegon N.V. and
also vary by a rating system, which is a composite of the main rating agencies (S&P, Moody’s and
Fitch) and Aegon Nederland’s internal rating of the counterparty. When the exposure to a
counterparty exceeds 75% it is considered to be at a warning level and the assets are monitored
more closely. A warning and violation list is sent to portfolio managers on a weekly basis. If an
exposure exceeds the stated limit, then the exposure must be reduced to the limit set by Aegon
N.V. and rating category as soon as possible. Exceptions to these limits can only be made after
explicit approval from Aegon N.V. The policy is reviewed regularly. During 2017 there has been
one breach regarding the CNLP, where for one counterparty the CNLP limit of EUR 135 million was
exceeded by EUR 60 million. This breach was the result of an internal downgrade of the
counterparty, which led to a lower limit. Subsequently, the exposure was reduced to be in line with
this new, lower limit. This breach, which was resolved within the quarter, was reported to the local
Risk & Capital Committee (RCC) and did not require reporting to the Global RCC.
The ratings distribution of the general account investments is presented in the table in note 4.4.4.
‘Credit rating’. Aegon Nederland’s level long-term counterparty exposure limits, are as follows:

in EUR million

Limit

Limit

2017

2016

AAA

270

270

AA

270

270

A

200

190

BBB

135

125

BB

75

75

B

38

38

CCC or lower

15

15

The limits in this table exclude sovereign exposures that are rated A or above. For these exposures
Aegon N.V. has set limits which are only applicable and reported at a consolidated Aegon N.V.
level3. Sovereign exposures (regardless of rating) that are issued by the government of the
functional currency of the Regions’ business and also owned in that currency and sovereign
exposures that are rated AAA by all three major agencies (S&P, Fitch and Moody’s) are exempt
from the policy.

4.4.5. Credit rating
The ratings distribution of general account portfolios of Aegon Nederland, including reinsurance
assets, is presented in the next table, organized by rating category and broken out by assets which
are valued at fair value and assets which are valued at amortized cost. Aegon Nederland maintains
a rating hierarchy that is closely aligned with the CNLP as maintained within Aegon N.V. Under the
CNLP a composite rating is used, which is based on a combination of the ratings of the constituents
mentioned. The rating used is the lower of the external rating and the internal rating.

3

A-rated: EUR 675 million; AA-rated EUR 900 million; AAA-rated: EUR 900 million
Page 104 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Investments for general account and reinsurance assets by rating

2017

AAA

Amortized

Fair

Reinsurance

Total

cost

value

assets

2017

1.658

12.727

-

14.385

AA

85

5.109

6

5.200

A

56

2.166

3

2.225

941

998

-

1.939

18

19

-

37

B

-

-

-

-

CCC or lower

-

3

-

3

BBB
BB

Assets not rated
Total on balance credit

27.800

5.471

6

33.277

30.557

26.493

16

57.066

299

36

-

335

exposure
Of which past due and / or impaired
assets

2016

AAA

Amortized

Fair

Reinsurance

Total

cost

value

assets

2016

1.628

13.020

7

14.655

AA

92

5.550

9

5.651

A

12

2.708

5

2.724

850

2.329

-

3.180

18

106

-

124

-

10

-

11

26.034

6.128

-

32.162

28.634

29.851

21

58.506

348

53

-

401

BBB
BB
B
Assets not rated
Total on balance credit
exposure
Of which past due and / or impaired
assets

The ‘Assets not rated’ category relates to equities and derivatives (with positive value) at fair value
and other financial assets at amortized cost (mainly mortgage loans).

Page 105 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

4.4.6. Credit risk concentration
The tables that follows presents specific credit risk concentration information for general account
financial assets.
Credit risk concentration – debt securities and money market investments

2017
ABSs- Collateralized Debt Obligations (CDOs)

2016

1.529

ABSs- Credit cards

2.437

-

62

ABSs- Other

298

214

Residential mortgage backed securities (RMBSs)

556

650

Commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBSs)

-

44

2.383

3.407

Financial - Banking

274

322

Financial - Other

216

205

1.269

2.545

Total investments in unconsolidated structured
entities

Industrial
Utility
Sovereign exposure
Total

106

391

15.539

15.652

19.787

22.521

-

-

Of which past due and / or impaired assets

Credit risk concentration – mortgage loans

2017
Apartment

2016

3.180

3.198

Office

-

1

Retail

11

12

Other commercial
Residential
Total
Of which past due and / or impaired assets

Fair value of the mortgage loan portfolio:

38

41

23.210

21.602

26.439

24.853

262

345

2017

2016

Fair value mortgage loans

30.926

29.479

The LTV was approximately

75,6%

83,4%

The part of the portfolio that is government guaranteed

51,2%

57,2%

0,2%

0,4%

-8

-5

Delinquency's in the portfolio (defined as 60 days in
arrears)
Impairments (reversals) during the year

Page 106 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Unconsolidated structured entities
Aegon Nederland’s investments in unconsolidated structured entities such as RMBSs, CMBSs and
ABSs are presented as part of the line item 'Investments' of the statement of financial position.
Aegon Nederland’s interests in these unconsolidated structured entities can be characterized as
basic interests, Aegon Nederland does not keeps loans, derivatives or other interests related to
these investments. The maximum exposure to losses from these investments is therefore equal to
the carrying amount which is reflected in the credit risk concentration table regarding debt
securities and money market investments. To manage credit risk Aegon Nederland invests primarily
in senior notes. Additional information on credit ratings for Aegon Nederland’s investments in
unconsolidated structured entities are disclosed in the sections that describe per category of debt
securities the composition and impairment assessments. The composition of the structured entities
portfolios of Aegon Nederland are widely dispersed looking at the individual amount per entity,
therefore Aegon Nederland only has non-controlling interests in unconsolidated structured entities.
Aegon Nederland did not provide financial or other support to unconsolidated structured entities.
Nor does Aegon Nederland have intentions to provide financial or other support to unconsolidated
structured entities in which Aegon Nederland has an interest or previously had an interest.
Furthermore these structured entities are not originated by Aegon Nederland.

2017

Number of entities

Carrying amount

EUR 0 < 10 million

58

161

> EUR 10 < 25 million

37

539

> EUR 25 < 50 million

12

470

> EUR 50 < 75 million

6

344

> EUR 75 < 100 million

4

344

> EUR 100 < 150 million

2

236

> EUR 150 < 250 million

-

-

> EUR 250 million

1

291

At December 31

120

2.383

Number of entities

Carrying amount

2016
EUR 0 < 10 million

100

326

> EUR 10 < 25 million

34

575

> EUR 25 < 50 million

13

466

> EUR 50 < 75 million

12

749

> EUR 75 < 100 million

11

954

> EUR 100 < 150 million

3

338

> EUR 150 < 250 million

-

-

> EUR 250 million

-

-

At December 31

173

3.407

For unconsolidated structured entities in which Aegon Nederland has an interest at reporting date,
the following table presents total income received from those interests. The Investments column
reflect the carrying values recognized in the statement of financial position of Aegon Nederland's
interests in unconsolidated structured entities. Aegon Nederland did not recognize other interests
in unconsolidated structured entities such as commitments, guarantees, provisions, derivative
instruments or other liabilities.

Page 107 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2017
Type of asset in

Interest income

Total gains and losses

Total

Investments

5

-8

-4

556

1

-

1

28

22

17

39

1.573

1

-

2

227

29

9

38

2.383

Interest income

Total gains and losses

6

15

21

650

1

-

1

44

31

-

31

2.437

3

-

3

276

41

15

56

3.407

unconsolidated entity
Residential mortgage backed
securities
Commercial mortgage backed
securities
Asset Backed Securities
ABS's - Other
Total

2016
Type of asset in

Total

Investments

unconsolidated entity
Residential mortgage backed
securities
Commercial mortgage backed
securities
Asset Backed Securities
ABS's - Other
Total

Aegon Nederland did not provide financial or other support to unconsolidated structured entities.
Nor does Aegon Nederland have intentions to provide financial or other support to unconsolidated
structured entities in which Aegon Nederland has an interest or previously had an interest.

4.4.7. Inflation risk
Aegon Nederland offers products that cover inflation risk for policyholders. To hedge the inflation
risk, Aegon Nederland invests in financial instruments of which the value depends on the rate of
inflation. This significantly reduces Aegon Nederland’s net exposure to inflation risk.

4.4.8. Past due and impaired financial assets
The tables that follow provide information on past due and impaired financial assets for Aegon
Nederland. A financial asset is past due when a counterparty has failed to make a payment when
it was due under the contract. A financial asset is impaired and impairment losses are incurred if,
and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that
occurred after the initial recognition of the asset and that event has an impact on the estimated
future cash flows of the financial asset that can be reliably estimated.

Page 108 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Aegon Nederland takes the following factors into account when deciding whether to impair financial
assets:

significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor;

a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments;

the lender, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower's financial difficulty,
granting to the borrower a concession that the lender would not otherwise consider;

it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial
reorganization;

the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial
difficulties; or

observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash
flows from a group of financial assets since the initial recognition of those assets, although
the decrease cannot yet be identified with the individual financial assets in the group.
After the impairment loss is reversed in a subsequent period, the asset is no longer considered to
be impaired. When the terms and conditions of the financial assets have been renegotiated, the
terms and conditions of the new agreement apply in determining whether the financial assets are
past due.
At year-end, no collateral, except that for mortgage loans, was held for financial assets which were
past due or which had undergone individual impairment. The carrying amount of the assets that
are (partly) impaired is:
Impaired financial assets

2017
Shares
Mortgage loans

2016
36

53

167

277

Other

3

3

Total

206

334

The decrease in carrying amount of the mortgage loans is caused by lower volumes, partly offset
by a higher average amount per volume. The carrying amount of the impaired financial assets is
approximately equal to the fair value. The interest income from impaired assets was EUR 5 million
(2016: EUR 13 million).

Shares
Objective evidence of impairment of an investment in an equity instrument classified as availablefor-sale includes information about significant changes with an adverse effect that have taken place
in the technological, market, economic or legal environment in which the issuer operates, and
indicates that the cost of the investment in the equity instrument may not be recovered. A
significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of an investment in an equity instrument below its
cost is also objective evidence of impairment. Significant or prolonged decline is defined as an
unrealized loss position for more than 6 months or a fair value of less than 80% of the original cost
price of the investment. Additionally, as part of an ongoing process, the equity analysts actively
monitor earnings releases, company fundamentals, new developments and industry trends for any
signs of possible impairment. If an available-for-sale equity security is impaired based upon the
qualitative or quantitative impairment criteria of Aegon Nederland, any further declines in the fair
value at subsequent reporting dates are recognized as impairments. Therefore, at each reporting
period, for an equity security that is determined to be impaired based upon the impairment criteria
of Aegon Nederland, an impairment is recognized for the difference between the fair value and the
original cost basis, less any previously recognized impairments.

Page 109 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Debt securities
Aegon Nederland regularly monitors industry sectors and individual debt securities for evidence of
impairment. This evidence may include one or more of the following: 1) deteriorating market to
book ratio, 2) increasing industry risk factors, 3) deteriorating financial condition of the issuer,
4) covenant violations, 5) high probability of bankruptcy of the issuer or 6) recognized credit rating
agency downgrades. Additionally, for asset-backed securities, cash flow trends and underlying
levels of collateral are monitored. A security is impaired if there is objective evidence that a loss
event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset that has a negative impact on the
estimated future cash flows. A specific security is considered to be impaired when it is determined
that not all amounts due (both principal and interest) will be collected as contractually scheduled.
Past due but not impaired financial assets

2017

0-6

6-12

months

months

> 1 year

2017

Mortgage loans

92

2

-

95

Total

92

2

-

95

2016

0-6

6-12

months

months

> 1 year

2016

Mortgage loans

63

3

2

68

Total

63

3

2

68

4.4.9. Equity market risk and other investments risk
Fluctuations in the equity, real estate and capital markets have affected Aegon Nederland’s
profitability, capital position and sales of equity related products in the past and may continue to
do so. Exposure to equity, real estate and capital markets exists in both assets and liabilities. Asset
exposure exists through direct equity investment, where Aegon Nederland bears all or most of the
volatility in returns and investment performance risk. Equity market exposure is also present in
insurance and investment contracts policyholder accounts where funds are invested in equities,
backing variable annuities, unit-linked products and mutual funds. Although most of the risk
remains with the policyholder, lower investment returns can reduce the asset management fee
earned by Aegon Nederland on the asset balance in these products. In addition, some of this
business has minimum return or accumulation guarantees. Aegon Nederland also operates an
Investment and Counterparty Policy that limits the Group’s overall counterparty risk exposure.

Page 110 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

The general account equity, real estate and other non-fixed-income portfolio of Aegon Nederland
is as follows:

2017
Equity funds

2016

2.490

1.547

Common shares

8

7

Hedge funds

1

1

General account shares

2.498

1.556

Investments in real estate

1.495

1.238

Other financial assets
Total

30

390

4.023

3.184

The investments in real estate mainly comprise residential property. The tables that follow present
specific market risk concentration information for general account shares:

2017
Financials
Funds

2016
3

4

2.490

1.547

Other

5

4

Total

2.498

1.556

36

53

Of which past due and / or impaired assets

Information on closing levels of certain major indices at the end of the last five years
The table that follows sets forth the closing levels of certain major indices at the end of the last
five years.

2017

2016

2015

2014

2013

S&P 500

2.674

2.239

2.044

2.059

1.848

Nasdaq

6.903

5.383

5.007

4.736

4.177

FTSE 100

7.688

7.143

6.242

6.566

6.749

545

483

442

424

402

AEX

Page 111 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Sensitivity analysis of net income and equity to equity markets
The sensitivity analysis of net income and equity to changes in equity prices is presented in the
table below. The sensitivity of equity and net income to changes in equity markets reflects changes
in the market value of Aegon Nederland’s portfolios and the strengthening of the provisions for
guaranteed minimum benefits, when applicable.

2017

2016

Estimated approximate effect

Estimated approximate effect

Net income

Equity

Net income

Equity

Equity increase 10%

-29

-26

-1

16

Equity decrease 10%

-35

-38

-48

-64

Equity increase 20%

-64

-58

1

33

Equity decrease 20%

-87

-94

-112

-144

Aegon Nederland uses derivatives to lower Solvency II capital requirements for ‘Equity Risk’ leading
to increased and reversed sensitivity of net income and equity for changes in equity markets.

4.4.10.

Derivatives risk

Aegon Nederland uses financial derivatives, such as interest rate swaps, options, futures and
currency contracts to hedge risks relating to investments for general account, loans, certain
liabilities and part of its solvency capital. Not all risks to which Aegon Nederland is exposed can be
adequately managed using derivatives. In addition, a counterparty in a derivative contract may fail
to meet its obligations towards Aegon Nederland. Either situation can have significant adverse
consequences for Aegon Nederland’s operations, operating results and financial position.
Aegon Nederland operates a policy to monitor the use of derivatives. This policy sets out the
control, authorization, implementation and monitoring requirements for using these instruments
and also stipulates the necessary credit risk limiting actions using derivatives. In general, credit
risk with derivatives is reduced by collateral requirements in the contract. See note 19 ‘Guarantees’
for more detailed disclosures.

4.4.11.

Liquidity risk

Liquidity risk is inherent in much of Aegon Nederland’s activity. Each asset purchased and liability
assumed has its own liquidity characteristics. Although most liabilities are of a long-term nature
and will not create an unexpected short-term liquidity requirement, some can be called on demand.
In normal circumstances, a significant proportion of the investment portfolio can be quickly
converted into liquid assets but some assets, such as private loans, mortgage loans, real estate
and holdings in unlisted enterprises are not highly liquid. If Aegon Nederland requires more than
the normal amount of cash at short notice, it may have difficulty selling these investments at
attractive prices or in a timely manner.

Page 112 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Aegon Nederland and its insurance subsidiaries operate a liquidity risk policy that focuses on
holding sufficient highly liquid assets so that liquidity requirements can be met both in normal
market conditions and in extreme situations resulting from unforeseen circumstances.
Aegon Nederland receives premiums from policyholders and, in exchange, is required to make
payments at a later time if certain conditions are met. The amounts received are invested primarily
in fixed-income assets. Investments in less liquid assets may lead to an increase in expected
income from the investment portfolio, but are more difficult to convert into cash if an unexpected
payment has to be made to a policyholder or contract holder. Internal liquidity tests are designed
to quantify this risk and ensure that there is sufficient liquidity even under extreme conditions. The
aim of the internal liquidity test is to compare the liquidity requirement against the amount
available in a number of scenarios.
The liquidity position is tested in the following scenarios:
1. Base scenario, assuming current market conditions; this is the ‘business as usual’ situation.
2. Stressed liquidity scenario, in which both liabilities and assets are stressed.
The stressed liquidity scenario is described below.
Although most liabilities are of a long term nature and will not create an unexpected short term
liquidity requirement, some can be called on demand.
In normal circumstances, a significant proportion of the investment portfolio can be quickly
converted into liquid assets but some assets, such as private loans, mortgage loans, real estate
and holdings in unlisted enterprises are not highly liquid. If Aegon Nederland requires more than
the normal amount of cash at short notice, it may have difficulty selling these investments at
attractive prices or in a timely manner.
Events that may have a sudden, adverse impact on available liquidity include the following:




Large change in interest rates;
Large change in credit spreads;
Insolvency of a counterparty, credit facility or bank where current accounts are held.

Available liquidity
Available liquidity is determined by modelling the asset cash flows. These include but are not limited
to:
•
Contractual repayments and coupon payments;
•
Expected advance payments on certain categories of assets, such as early repayment of
mortgage loans;
•
Expected extensions of maturity on certain categories of assets;
•
Sales proceeds on assets taking into account a maximum haircut of 1% compared with the
current mid-rate.
Some cash flows are fixed and/or highly probable, while others depend on the specific market
conditions involved in the scenarios. For example, it is assumed in the stresses liquidity scenario
that assets other than highly liquid sovereign or corporate bonds which are explicitly and fully
guaranteed by the local authorities cannot be sold in the first 6 months.

Page 113 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Required liquidity
The required liquidity is computed by modelling the cash flows from liabilities. These include but
are not limited to:
•
Contractual repayments at maturity;
•
Benefits and claims;
•
Full or partial withdrawal of assets at call;
•
Use of policy loans;
•
Periodic premium payments and potential changes in them;
•
New business activities.
For liabilities too, some cash flows are fixed and stable but most will vary considerably when a
different liquidity scenario is applied. It is expected there will be little new commercial activity if
Aegon Nederland’s rating is cut and the situation in the financial market deteriorates. The amount
of cash provided as collateral for some derivative transactions will then likely increase as well.
Results of the coverage ratios
Aegon Nederland holds EUR 17.2 billion (2016: EUR 16.9 billion) of general account investments
in money market products and sovereign bonds that are readily saleable or redeemable on demand
in the event of a liquidity shortfall. It is also possible to use such bonds as the basis for repurchase
contracts so that liquidity can be drawn from the market. The afore mentioned amounts are based
upon Aegon Nederland’s internally used definitions when testing the liquidity.
The coverage ratio is calculated after modelling the expected cash flows for assets and liabilities
for each period of up to 2 years. The results of the coverage ratio, available liquidity divided by the
required liquidity, show that Aegon Nederland had sufficient liquidity in different scenarios and for
all tested periods at year-end 2017.
On the basis of project operating cash flows and the income from financial assets, therefore, Aegon
Nederland expects to be able to continue to meet its liabilities.

Maturity analysis liabilities –gross undiscounted contractual cash flows (for nonderivatives)
The tables below show the remaining contractual maturities for each category of financial liability.
When the counterparty has a choice of when an amount is paid, the liability is included on the basis
of the earliest date on which it can be required to be paid. Financial liabilities that are payable on
demand with a given delay are reported in the category ‘On demand’. If there is a notice period,
Aegon Nederland has to assume that notice is given immediately and the repayment is presented
at the earliest date after the end of the notice period. When the amount payable is not fixed, the
amount reported is determined by reference to the conditions existing at the reporting date. For
example, if the amount payable varies with changes in an index, the amount disclosed may be
based on the level of the index at the reporting date to manage the liquidity risk arising from
financial liabilities, Aegon holds liquid assets comprising cash and cash equivalents and investment
grade investment securities for which there is an active and liquid market. These assets can be
readily sold to meet liquidity requirements. For this reason, Aegon believes that it is not necessary
to disclose a maturity analysis in respect of these assets to enable users to evaluate the nature
and extent of liquidity risk.

Page 114 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2017

On

<1

1<5

5 < 10

> 10

Total

year

year

year

year

2017

demand

Borrowings and group

-

1.634

3.463

1.482

4

6.582

loans
Savings deposits

7.075

658

931

324

580

9.568

Investment contracts

-

10

38

50

121

219

Investment contracts for

-

-

-

-

133

133

account of policyholders
Other financial liabilities
Total

2016

661

1.085

646

13

28

2.433

7.736

3.387

5.077

1.869

865

18.935

On

<1

1<5

5 < 10

> 10

Total

year

year

year

year

2016

demand

Borrowings and group

-

2.548

4.072

496

1

7.118

loans
Savings deposits

7.003

614

849

240

108

8.814

Investment contracts

-

10

38

50

131

229

Investment contracts for

-

-

-

-

466

466

account of policyholders
Other financial liabilities
Total

512

1.558

729

18

26

2.842

7.515

4.730

5.688

804

733

19.470

In 2017, the investment contracts for account of policyholders decreased mainly due to
derecognition of a part of the portfolio of Aegon PPI. Refer to note 22 ‘Investment contracts for
account of policyholders’ for more information.

Expected undiscounted cash flows relating to insurance and investment contracts
Aegon Nederland’s liquidity management is based on expected claims and benefit payments rather
than on the contractual maturities. The projected cash benefit payments in the table below are
based on management’s best estimates of the expected gross benefits and expenses, partially
offset by the expected gross premiums, fees and charges relating to the existing business in force.
Estimated cash benefit payments are based on mortality, morbidity and lapse assumptions
comparable with Aegon Nederland’s historical experience, modified for recently observed trends.
Actual payment obligations may differ if experience varies from these assumptions. The cash
benefit payments are presented on an undiscounted basis and are before deduction of tax and
before reinsurance.
The liability amount in the financial statements reflects the discounting for interest as well as
adjustments for the timing of other factors as described above. As a result, the sum of the cash
benefit payments shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liability amounts
included in note 17 ‘Insurance contracts’ and note 18 ‘Insurance contracts for account of
policyholders’.

Page 115 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2017

<1

1<5

5 < 10

> 10

Total

year

year

year

year

2017

Insurance contracts

1.294

5.216

6.253

37.281

50.044

Insurance contracts for account of

1.122

3.630

5.013

21.841

31.605

15

48

57

131

250

-

-

-

133

133

2.431

8.894

11.322

59.386

82.033

policyholders
Investment contracts
Investment contracts for account of
policyholders
Total

2016

<1

1<5

5 < 10

> 10

Total

year

year

year

year

2016

Insurance contracts

1.104

5.203

6.279

36.555

49.141

Insurance contracts for account of

1.333

3.760

4.585

21.202

30.880

16

51

58

142

267

-

-

-

466

466

2.453

9.014

10.922

58.366

80.755

policyholders
Investment contracts
Investment contracts for account of
policyholders
Total

Maturity analysis – derivatives (contractual cash flows)
The table below shows the liquidity analysis for derivative financial instruments, based on the
undiscounted contractual net cash inflows and outflows on derivative instruments that settle on a
net basis, and the undiscounted gross inflows and outflows on those derivatives that require gross
settlement.
For gross settled derivatives, cash flows are presented in the table below for both the ‘paying leg’
and the ‘receiving leg’. The credit risk on the ‘receiving leg’ is mitigated by collateral and ISDA
‘master netting’ agreements as explained for ‘credit risk’.
This table includes all financial derivatives regardless of whether they have a positive or a negative
value. For interest rate derivatives only cash flows related to the ‘paying leg’ are taken into account
for determining the gross undiscounted cash flows.

2017

On demand

<1

1<5

5 < 10

> 10

Total

year

year

year

year

2017

Cash inflows

-

657

3.721

7.391

14.140

25.908

Cash outflows

-

-772

-3.646

-7.255

-14.659

-26.332

2016

On demand

<1

1<5

5 < 10

> 10

Total

year

year

year

year

2016

Cash inflows

-

729

2.865

7.242

13.570

24.406

Cash outflows

-

-1.349

-3.399

-6.401

-12.913

-24.062

Page 116 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

4.4.12.

Underwriting risk

General information
Aegon Nederland’s earnings depend significantly upon the extent to which actual claims experience
differs from the assumptions used in setting the prices for products and establishing the technical
liabilities and liabilities for claims. To the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than
the underlying assumptions used in establishing such liabilities, income would be reduced.
Furthermore, if these higher claims were part of a permanent trend, Aegon Nederland may be
required to increase liabilities, which could reduce income. In addition, certain acquisition costs
related to the sale of new policies and the purchase of policies already in force have been recorded
as assets on the statement of financial position and are being amortized into income over time. If
the assumptions relating to the future profitability of these policies (such as future claims,
investment income and expenses) are not realized, the amortization of these costs could be
accelerated and may even require write offs due to irrecoverability. This could have a materially
adverse effect on Aegon Nederland’s business, results of operations and financial condition.
Sources of underwriting risk include policyholder behavior (such as lapses surrender of policies or
partial withdrawals) and policy claims (such as mortality and morbidity). In general, Aegon
Nederland is at risk if policy lapses increase in some cases Aegon Nederland is unable to fully
recover up front expenses in selling a product despite the claw back mechanism for commissions
or surrender charges and fees. For mortality and morbidity risk, Aegon Nederland sells certain
types of policies that are at risk if mortality or morbidity increases, such as term life insurance and
accident insurance, and sells certain types of policies that are at risk if mortality decreases
(longevity risk) such as annuity products. Aegon Nederland is also at risk if expenses are higher
than assumed by management.
Aegon Nederland monitors and manages its underwriting risk by underwriting risk type. Attribution
analysis is performed on earnings and reserve movements in order to understand the source of
any material variation in actual results from what was expected. Aegon Nederland’s business units
also perform experience studies for underwriting risk assumptions, comparing Aegon Nederland’s
experience to industry experience as well as combining Aegon Nederland’s experience and industry
experience based on the depth of the history of each source to Aegon Nederland’s underwriting
assumptions. Where policy charges are flexible in products, Aegon Nederland uses these analysis
as the basis for modifying these charges, with a view to maintain a balance between policyholder
and shareholder interests. Aegon Nederland also has the ability to (partly) reduce expense levels
over time, thus mitigating unfavorable expense variation.
Reinsurance policy
Aegon Nederland reinsures part of its insurance exposure to third-party reinsurers under traditional
indemnity, and 'excess of loss' contracts. Reinsurance helps Aegon Nederland manage, mitigate
and diversify its insurance risks, and limit the maximum loss it may incur.
Aegon Levensverzekering has reinsured its term life assurance through quota-sharing contracts
with Reinsurance Group of America and Munich Re.
In December 2013, Aegon Nederland has reinsured a specified portfolio of annuities against
possible future mortality improvements through a longevity reinsurance contract between its
subsidiary Aegon Levensverzekering and Blue Square Re N.V. (‘Blue Square’), a 100% subsidiary
of Aegon N.V., Aegon Nederland’s ultimate parent company.
For non-life, Aegon Schadeverzekering only reinsures its property, general and motor third-party
liability business. The main counterparties are Hannover Re and SCOR Re Europe. For property
insurance, an 'excess of loss' contract is in place with a retention level of EUR 350,000 for each
separate risk, and EUR 2,5 million for each windstorm event. For motor third-party liability
insurance, Aegon Schadeverzekering has reinsurance in place with a retention level of EUR 750,000
for each event. For general third-party liability, Aegon Schadeverzekering has reinsurance in place
with a retention level of EUR 350,000 for each event.
Page 117 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Notes to the table
Sensitivity analysis of net income and shareholders’ equity to various underwriting risks is shown
in the table that follows. The sensitivities represent an increase or decrease of mortality and
morbidity rates over the best estimate. Increases in mortality rates lead to an increase in the level
of benefits and claims. The impact on net income and shareholders’ equity of sales transactions of
investments required to meet the higher cash outflow is reflected in the sensitivities. A change in
actual experience with mortality or morbidity rates may not lead to a change in the assumptions
underlying the measurement of the insurance liabilities, as management may recognize that the
change is temporary. Life insurers are also exposed to longevity risk. Increased life expectation
above Aegon Nederland’s assumed life expectation at the time of underwriting negatively impacts
its results.

2017

2016

Estimated approximate effect

Estimated approximate effect

Net income

Equity

Net income

Equity

20% increase in lapse rates

60

39

3

11

20% decrease in lapse rates

-69

-45

-3

-12

10% increase in mortality rates

425

787

446

811

10% decrease in mortality rates

-413

-818

-443

-850

10% increase in morbidity rates

-25

-84

-29

-88

10% decrease in morbidity rates

26

76

26

75

The sensitivity of net income and equity for parallel shifts in underwriting shocks is in line with
prior year sensitivity.
Longevity
Aegon Nederland partially hedges the risk of future longevity increases in the Netherlands related
to a part of its insurance liabilities. Over the past years Aegon Nederland has initiated a number of
transactions to hedge this risk via both longevity index derivatives and reinsurance contracts.

4.4.13.

Modelling risk

Aegon Nederland makes extensive use of models to value assets, liabilities and capital
requirements. It is therefore subject to modelling risk. A modelling approach can be wrong in the
sense of misestimating (future) values of assets, liabilities and capital requirements. The main
causes of modelling risk are:





The model might contain methodological errors (mathematical inconsistencies or
misinterpretations of applicable regulations);
The model might be inputted with wrong source data;
The model might be based on assumptions and simplifications that are not completely
appropriate;
Results of the model might be misinterpreted.

The internal control framework and model governance adopted by Aegon Nederland are aimed at
reducing modelling risk. Also back-testing and experience analysis are performed to mitigate
modelling risk.

Page 118 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

4.4.14.

Other risks

Catastrophes
The operating results and financial position can be adversely affected by natural and man-made
disasters such as hurricanes, riots, fires and explosions. Generally, Aegon Nederland seeks to
reduce its exposure to these events through individual risk selection, monitoring risk accumulation
and purchasing reinsurance. However, even with reinsurance, such events could lead to
considerable financial loss. Furthermore, natural disasters, terrorism and fires could disrupt Aegon
Nederland’s operations and could result in significant loss of property, substantial personnel losses
and the destruction of company and customer information.

Legislation and regulation
Aegon Nederland’s insurance and banking activities are subject to comprehensive regulation and
supervision. Changes in current legislation and regulation of insurance and banking products may
affect Aegon Nederland’s products and operations. Changes in regulations on pensions and
employee benefits, social security, financial services and taxation may adversely affect Aegon
Nederland’s ability to sell new products or its claims’ exposure on existing ones. Additionally, new
or amended legislation or regulations may be more restrictive or result in higher costs than lead to
higher costs than is currently the case.

Legal proceedings
Aegon Nederland is involved in litigation as part of the ordinary course of business, including
litigation where compensatory or punitive damages and mass or class relief are being sought.
Current and former customers, both institutional as well as individual, and groups representing
customers, initiate litigation. Moreover, certain groups encourage others to bring lawsuits in respect
of certain products. Aegon Nederland has established litigation policies to deal with claims,
defending when the claim is without merit and seeking to settle in certain circumstances. There
can be no assurances that Aegon Nederland will be able to resolve existing litigation in the manner
it expects or that existing or future litigation will not result in unexpected liability. For more details
refer to note 41.4 “Legal and arbitrary proceedings, regulatory proceedings and actions”.

5.

Cash and cash equivalents

2017

2016

Cash on hand and balances with banks

2.426

1.690

Short term bank deposits

2.022

2.489

Money market investments

3.936

3.211

Short term collateral
Total

3

16

8.386

7.406

The carrying amounts disclosed reasonably approximate the fair values at year-end. The collateral
relates to securities lending and repurchase agreements and margins on derivatives transactions.
A corresponding liability to repay the cash is recognized in other liabilities.

Page 119 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Investment of cash collateral received is restricted through limitations on credit worthiness,
duration, approved investment categories and borrower limits. Aegon Nederland earns a share of
the spread between the collateral earnings and the rebate paid to the borrower of the securities.
We refer to note 42 ‘Transfers of financial assets’ for more information on collateral and reverse
repurchase obligations.
Deposits with Dutch Central Bank (DNB)
Cash and cash equivalents include cash and demand balances held at the Dutch Central Bank. The
Dutch Central Bank requires Aegon Bank N.V. to place 1% of their deposits with agreed maturity
or the savings accounts (without restrictions to withdraw their money) in an account with the Dutch
Central Bank This deposit is renewed every 42-49 days, based on an updated valuation of total
assets. 'The interest received on this deposit is equal to the ECB deposit rate of -/-40bp (2016
was-30bp until March 16, 2016 and -/-40bp the rest of the year). The average minimum required
balance on deposit by the Dutch Central Bank was EUR 67 million (2016: EUR 63 million). These
deposits are freely available. Other cash and cash equivalents are unrestricted. Due to the nature
of this asset the total amount classifies as current assets.

2017
Average balance on deposit with DNB at year-end

1.326

824

67

63

Average minimum required balance on deposit by DNB for year-end period

6.

2016

Investments

Investments for general account comprise financial assets, excluding derivatives, as well as
investments in real estate and investments in investment funds accounted for according to the
equity method. See also note 40.2 ‘summary of financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value
through profit or loss’.

Note

2017

2016

Available-for-sale financial assets (AFS)

6.1

19.859

23.063

Loans (amortized cost)

6.1

30.557

28.627

Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss

6.1

2.456

1.404

52.873

53.094

(FVTPL)
Total financial assets, excluding derivatives
Investments in real estate
Total investments for general account

1.495

1.238

54.367

54.332

Page 120 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Financial assets, excluding derivatives

2017

AFS

Shares

Loans

FVTPL

Total

Fair value

45

-

2.453

2.498

2.498

Debt securities

19.784

-

3

19.787

19.787

Mortgage loans

-

26.802

-

26.802

30.926

Private loans

-

3.590

-

3.590

4.038

Deposits with financial

-

50

-

50

50

institutions
Policy loans

-

2

-

2

2

30

113

-

143

143

At December 31

19.859

30.557

2.456

52.873

57.444

2016

AFS

Loans

Other

Shares

FVTPL

Total

Fair value

152

-

1.404

1.556

1.556

Debt securities

22.521

-

-

22.521

22.521

Mortgage loans

-

25.357

-

25.357

29.479

Private loans

-

3.124

-

3.124

3.510

Deposits with financial

-

40

-

40

40

institutions
Policy loans
Other
At December 31

-

3

-

3

3

390

104

-

494

494

23.063

28.627

1.404

53.094

57.602

2017

2016

Current
Non-current
Total financial assets, excluding derivatives

5.673

5.364

47.199

47.731

52.873

53.094

Reference is made to note 40 ‘Fair value of assets and liabilities’ for information on fair value
measurement. Certain mortgage loans shown within the category amortized loans are designated
in portfolio fair value interest rate hedging relationships, and are fair valued with respect to the
hedged interest rate. This resulted in a lower carrying value of EUR 362 million as at December 31,
2017 (2016: EUR 504 million higher). None of the financial assets has been reclassified during the
financial year. Other loans comprise deposits with insurance companies with respect to reinsurance
agreements. These are not freely available.

Page 121 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Loans allowance
Loan allowance account
Movements on the loan allowance account during the year were as follows:

2017
At January 1

2016

104

Addition charged to income statement
Amounts written off

109

16

12

-10

-17

Other movements

4

-1

At December 31

113

104

Investments in real estate

2017
At January 1

1.238

2016
1.148

Additions

237

88

Disposals

-106

-88

Fair value gains / (losses)
At December 31

126

91

1.495

1.238

Aegon Nederland’s investments in real estate consists mainly of residential property. Aegon
Nederland has entered into long-term residential property leases that can be terminated subject
to a short-term notice by the tenant. Although most rental contracts have a clause that stipulates
that the annual rent can be increased based on a fixed schedule or market conditions, for the
majority of these residences the possibility of increasing rent is limited. Under Dutch law, the
maximum annual rent increase on residential property rented in the affordable housing segment4
is specified by the Dutch national government and equals the annual inflation rate plus a small
margin.
There are no restrictions on the realizability of investment property or the remittance of income
and proceeds of disposal. The entire portfolio of investments in real estate was appraised during
the reporting period by independent external valuators.

4

The maximum monthly rent in the affordable housing segment (‘liberalisatiegrens’ or ‘huurtoeslaggrens’) as of January 1,

2017 is EUR 710,68
Page 122 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Rental income
Rental income is reported as part of investment income in the income statement, see note 29
‘Investment income’. Additional information on rental income is presented in the table below:

2017
Theoretical rental income

2016
82

82

2

2

Minus: missed rental income on vacant investment
property
Gross rental income
Direct operating expenses of property that generated

80

80

-25

-26

55

54

rental income
Net income on real estate

7.

Investments for account of policyholders

Investments for account of policyholders comprises of financial assets held by investment funds to
meet obligations to third parties. Investment returns on these assets are passed on to the
policyholder.
The fees for managing these investments are included in note 30 ‘Fee and commission income’.
See also note 40.2 ‘summary of financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit
or loss’.

2017

2016

Shares

9.039

9.582

Debt securities

9.197

11.663

Mortgage loans

1.792

1.541

Other financial investments
Cash and cash equivalents

583

479

2.964

2.026

23.574

25.292

Almost all shares and debt securities for account of policyholders are publicly traded.

Page 123 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

8.

Derivatives

Derivative asset
2017
Derivatives not designated in a

Derivative liability

2016

2017

2016

4.141

5.367

5.331

5.819

36

17

309

461

4.177

5.384

5.640

6.280

hedge
Derivatives designated as fair value
hedges
Total

2017
Current

2016

118

Non-current
Total net derivatives

-245

-1.580

-652

-1.462

-896

See also note 40.2 ‘summary of financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit
or loss’.
Derivatives not designated in a hedge – general account

Derivative asset
2017
Derivatives held as an economic

Derivative liability

2016

4.141

2017

5.367

3.781

2016
4.260

hedge
Bifurcated embedded derivatives
Total

-

-

1.550

1.559

4.141

5.367

5.331

5.819

Aegon Nederland uses derivative instruments as a part of its asset liability management strategy:
the risk management of all assets and liabilities. They may relate to an existing asset or liability or
a future reinvestment risk. Derivatives are classified as economic hedges to the extent that they
do not qualify for hedge accounting or where Aegon Nederland has elected not to apply hedge
accounting. In all cases, they are in accordance with internal risk guidelines and are closely
monitored for continuing compliance with these guidelines.
Embedded derivatives that are not closely related and separable to the host contracts have been
bifurcated and are recorded at fair value in the statement of financial position, along with
derivatives not used as hedges. These bifurcated embedded derivatives are embedded in unitlinked insurance contracts in the form of guarantees for minimum benefits.
Interest rate derivatives are used to manage interest risk positions. These contracts are designated
as economic hedges with respect to these risks. The main types of derivatives used are interest
rate swaps, swaptions, caps/floors and forward rate agreements/futures. Currency contracts are
used to manage Aegon Nederland’s positions in net foreign currency investments. The main types
of derivatives used for this are cross-currency swaps and currency forward contracts. Other
derivatives are used to manage risks relating to equities and credit. The main types of derivatives
used for this are equity swaps, options, futures and credit derivatives. For more information on the
guarantees refer to note 19 ‘Guarantees’.

Page 124 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

In order to mitigate certain investment risks for investments for account of policyholders with a
guaranteed return, Aegon Nederland invests in total return swaps (TRS). These TRSs hedge the
movements in the guarantee provision. Under the TRSs, the returns for the account of policyholders
on a specified nominal amount are paid out, while the treasury yield on this nominal amount is
received.
Aegon Nederland partially offsets the risk of future longevity increases related to a part of its
insurance liabilities by buying longevity index derivatives. These longevity derivatives will pay out
if the mortality rates in future years have decreased more than a pre-determined percentage
compared with the base scenario at the moment of signing the contract.
Derivatives designated as fair value hedges
Aegon Nederland’s fair value hedges consist of interest rate swaps that are used to protect against
changes in the fair value of fixed-rate instruments due to movements in market interest rates.
Gains and losses on derivatives designated under fair value hedge accounting are recognized in
the income statement. The effective portion of the fair value change on the hedged item is also
recognized in the income statement. As a result, only the net accounting ineffectiveness has an
impact on the net result. This offset is only possible when using the EU carve out on hedge
accounting. The table below summarizes the effect of the fair value hedges.

2017
Fair value changes mortgage loans recognized in income

2016

-135

195

126

-176

-9

19

statement under the EU carve-out
Offset amount of fair value changes recognized on
derivatives used as hedging instrument
Total accounting ineffectiveness under the EU
carve-out recognized in the income statement

Fair value of outstanding derivatives designated under fair
value hedge accounting was:
2017
Presented as asset
Presented as liability
Total

2016
36

17

309

461

-272

-443

Page 125 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

For the year-ended December 31, 2017, Aegon Nederland recognized EUR -/- 142 million of fair
value changes on mortgage loans using fair value hedge accounting under the EU carve out rule in
the income statement (2016: EUR 195 million). This resulted in a lower carrying value of the
mortgage loans (2016: higher).
This amount was offset by EUR 133 million fair value changes recognized on the derivatives used
as hedging instrument (2016: EUR -/- 176 million). This offset is only possible when using the EU
carve-out on hedge accounting as otherwise the hedge would not have been “highly” effective as
required by IFRS. This means that profit (before tax) would have been EUR 142 million higher
under IFRS as issued by the IASB (2016: EUR 195 million lower).
The total net accounting ineffectiveness under the EU carve-out recognized in the income statement
was EUR -/- 9 million in 2017 (2016: EUR 19 million).
Furthermore, fair value hedge is applied to part of the covered bond portfolio.
For the year-ended December 31, 2017, Aegon Nederland recognized EUR 7 million of fair value
changes on the covered bond portfolio using fair value hedge accounting in the income statement
(2016: nil). This amount was offset by EUR -/- 7 million fair value changes recognized on the
derivatives used as hedging instrument (2016: nil).
During 2016 Aegon Nederland group companies (Aegon Spaarkas, Optas Pensioenen and Aegon
Levensverzekering) and as per the third quarter of 2017 Aegon Schadeverzekering changed their
risk management policy and decided to take on more interest rate risk, in order to economically
offset the interest rate risk on the insurance liabilities. This has resulted in a de-designation of all
fair value hedge accounting applied to these mortgage portfolios as of that date. The cumulative
base adjustment (EUR 67 million per yearend 2017) is amortized over the weighted average
duration (7 to 13 years) of the mortgage portfolios to which hedge-accounting was applied at the
date of de-designation.
As at December 31, 2017, the fair value of outstanding derivatives designated under fair value
hedge accounting amounted to EUR -/- 272 million (2016: EUR -/- 443 million). As of Q3 2017
only Aegon Bank and Aegon Hypotheken apply fair value hedge accounting.

9.

Investments in associates

2017

2016

At January 1

21

Additions

55

6

Disposals

-

-3

Share in net income

19

4

2

Dividend

-2

-2

Share in changes in associates' equity

-2

-1

Other

-1

-

74

21

At December 31

Page 126 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

All associates are unlisted and are accounted for using the equity method and are considered to be
non-current. The investments in associates include stakes in insurance companies that are required
to maintain a minimum solvency margin based on local directives. Such restrictions can affect the
ability of these associates to transfer funds in the form of cash dividends, or repayment of loans or
advances, and therefore, there can be no assurance that these restrictions will not become a
limitation in the future. There are no unrecognized shares of losses in associates. The financial
statements of all associates have the same reporting date as the Aegon Nederland.
Additions relates to the investment in OB Capital Cooperatief U.A., Auxmoney GmbH and Dynamic
Credit Group B.V. in 2017. Refer to note 44.2 ‘Investments in associates and joint ventures’ for
more information.

10.

Investments in joint ventures

2017
At January 1
Additions

2016

877

837

54

27

Share in net income

126

106

Dividend

-49

-95

Share in changes in joint ventures' equity
At December 31

-

2

1.008

877

All joint ventures are unlisted and are accounted for using the equity method and are considered
to be non-current. There are no unrecognized shares of losses in joint ventures. The financial
statements of all joint ventures have the same reporting date as the group.
The summarized financial information presented below are the amounts included in the IFRS
financial statements of the joint ventures adjusted for fair value adjustments made at the time of
acquisition and for differences in accounting policies.
Summarized financial information of material joint ventures
Aegon Nederland considers its investment in AMVEST entities as material joint ventures. The
summarized financial information presented below are the amounts included in the IFRS financial
statements of AMVEST on 100% basis.

Page 127 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2017

2016

Summarized statement of financial position
Cash and cash equivalents

109

Other current assets

166

135
237

Total current assets

276

372

Non-current assets

3.173

2.519

Total assets

3.449

2.891

Other current liabilities

133

149

Total current liabilities

133

149

Non-current financial liabilities excluding trade payables

643

476

Total non-current liabilities

643

476

Total liabilities

776

625

2.673

2.266

91

86

-5

-7

357

275

and other provisions

Net assets
Summarized statement of comprehensive income
Revenues
Interest income
Interest expense
Profit or loss from continuing operations
Income tax expense or income
Post-tax profit or loss from continuing operations

-1

-10

357

266

Post-tax profit or loss from discontinued operations
Other comprehensive income
Total comprehensive income

-

7

357

273

49

95

Dividends received from joint ventures

Refer to note 44.2 ‘Investments in associates and joint ventures’ for a listing of the principal
investments in joint ventures and the percentage holding of Aegon Nederland. A reconciliation of
the summarized financial information to the carrying amounts of the joint ventures is as follows:

2017

2016

Net assets of joint venture as presented above

2.673

2.266

Group share of net assets of joint venture, excluding fair

1.008

877

1.008

877

value adjustments
Carrying amount of investments in joint ventures

Page 128 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

11.

Borrowings and group loans

2017
Loan Aegon Derivatives N.V.

2016

479

505

Loan Aegon N.V.

4

-

Loan Blue Square Re

7

6

At December 31

490

511

current

483

505

non-current
Total

7

6

490

511

The loan with Aegon Derivatives is cash collateral received under derivatives transactions. Aegon
Derivatives settles this collateral with external parties on behalf of Aegon Nederland. The derivative
transactions are for ordinary operations. The collateral is the consequence of movements in market
values on derivatives and is settled daily.
The carrying amounts disclosed reasonably approximate fair value at year-end.

12.

Reinsurance assets

2017

2016

Life insurance general account

9

Non-life insurance

7

12

At December 31

16

21

Current
Non-current

10

3

6

13

16

16

21

Amounts due from reinsurers in respect of claims already paid by Aegon Nederland on contracts
that are reinsured are included in note 14 ‘Other assets and receivables’.
Movements during the year in reinsurance assets

2017

At January 1

Life insurance

Non-life

General

For account

account

policyholders

Total

insurance

10

-

12

21

Gross premiums and deposits

9

-

7

16

Changes in unearned premiums

-

-

-7

-10

-

Insurance liabilities released

-7
-10

Release for claims settled prior years

-

-

-5

-5

At December 31

9

-

7

16

Page 129 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2016

Life insurance

Non-life

General

For account

account

policyholders

At January 1

Total

insurance

12

-

14

26

Gross premiums and deposits

8

-

5

13

Changes in unearned premiums

-

-

-5

-5

-11

-

-

-11

Incurred related to current year

-

-

1

1

Release for claims settled prior years

-

-

-4

-4

10

-

12

21

Insurance liabilities released

At December 31

13.

Deferred expenses

2017

2016

At January 1

84

Costs deferred

11

11

-19

-24

At December 31

76

84

Current

17

17

Non-current

59

67

At December 31

76

84

Amortization through income statement

97

The carrying amounts disclosed reasonably approximate the fair values at year-end.
In December 2013, Aegon Nederland entered into a longevity reinsurance contract with Blue
Square Re, a 100% owned subsidiary of Aegon N.V., Aegon Nederland’s ultimate parent company.
The contract reinsures a specified portfolio of insurance contracts against possible future mortality
improvements. The size of the underlying portfolio is EUR 941 million (2016: EUR 987 million).
Blue Square Re will pay benefits as long as the participants live and receive fixed payments from
Aegon Nederland. At year-end 2017, EUR 22 million (2016: 23 million) is recognized as deferred
cost of reinsurance with regard to this reinsurance contract, which is amortized over the duration
of the underlying insurance contracts.

14.

Other assets and receivables

note

2017

2016

Real estate held for own use

14.1

115

Equipment

14.2

49

53

Receivables

14.3

1.430

1.248

Accrued income

14.4

Total

120

512

487

2.105

1.909

Page 130 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Real estate held for own use

2017

2016

Cost
At January 1

161

154

Additions

2

8

Revaluations

1

-

-34

-1

130

161

41

39

2

2

Other
At December 31
Accumulated depreciation
At January 1
Depreciation through income statement
Other

-28

-

15

41

115

120

At December 31
Net book value at December 31

On October 31, 2017 Aegon Nederland sold its shares in Unirobe Meeùs Groep (UMG). As a result
all real estate held for own use related to UMG is derecognized, which explained the line-items
‘Other’.
Real estate held for own use is revalued at least once in three years, based on appraisals by
independent external valuators. The entire portfolio of investments in real estate held for own use
was appraised in 2015. Key assumptions in determining the fair value were the rental income and
the lease term of the property. The useful life of real estate held for own use is between 40 and 50
years. Real estate held for own use has not been provided as collateral for liabilities nor are
ownership rights restricted. Depreciation through the income statement is included in note 35
‘Commissions and expenses’.

Equipment

2017

2016

Cost
At January 1

195

190

Additions

15

8

Disposals

-4

-3

Other

-104

-

At December 31

102

195

Accumulated depreciation
At January 1

142

131

Depreciation through income statement

11

13

Disposals

-3

-2

Other

-97

-

At December 31

53

142

Net book value at December 31

49

53

Page 131 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

On October 31, 2017 Aegon Nederland sold its shares in Unirobe Meeùs Groep (UMG). As a result
all equipment related to UMG is derecognized, which mainly explained the line-item ‘Other’.
No equipment has been provided as collateral for liabilities nor are ownership rights restricted.
Assets are depreciated over their useful life, a period of three to fifteen years. Depreciation through
the income statement is included in note 35 ‘Commissions and expenses’.

Receivables

2017

2016

Receivables from reinsurers

1

9

Reverse repurchase agreements

230

77

Investment debtors

777

556

Receivables from policyholders

188

303

Receivables from brokers and agents

5

10

Loans to associates

1

1

Current account with group companies
Other
Provision for doubtful debts

36

-

204

340

-12

-47

Total

1.430

1.248

Current

1.405

1.206

Non-current
Total

24

43

1.430

1.248

The carrying amounts disclosed reasonably approximate the fair values at year-end. Other mainly
consists of margin futures held for derivatives.
Information on provision for doubtful debts:

2017
Policyholders, brokers and agents

2016
12

Trade receivables
Total

11

-

36

12

47

Movement schedule
2017
At January 1
Additions charged to earnings
Used during the year
Unused amounts reversed through the income statement
At December 31

2016
47

64

6

3

-37

-14

-3

-6

12

47

Page 132 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Accrued income

2017
Accrued interest
Prepaid expenses
Deferred acquisition expenses non-life insurance
At December 31

2016

489

454

19

29

3

5

512

487

The account ‘Accrued income’ is classified entirely as current assets. The carrying amounts
disclosed reasonably approximate the fair values at year-end.

15.

Intangible assets

2017
Goodwill
VOBA insurance contracts
VOBA intermediary portfolios

2016
-

25

17

22

-

8

Software

19

5

Total

35

60

2017
Goodwill
Cost

VOBA

VOBA

ins. contr

interm.

Software

Total
2017

portf.
At January 1

69

74

170

49

1

-

6

19

26

Other movements

-55

-

-175

-48

-278

At December 31

15

74

-

20

109

Additions

361

2017
Goodwill
Accumulated

VOBA

VOBA

ins. contr

interm.

amortization/impairment
At January 1
Amortization / impairment

Software

Total
2017

portf.
43

52

162

44

301

-

5

3

3

11

through income statement
Other movements

-28

-

-165

-46

-238

At December 31

15

57

-

2

74

-

17

-

19

35

Net book value at
December 31

Page 133 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2016
Goodwill
Cost

VOBA

VOBA

ins. contr

interm.

Software

Total
2016

portf.
At January 1
Additions
At December 31

66

74

168

47

2

-

2

2

356
6

69

74

170

49

361

2016
Goodwill
Accumulated

VOBA

VOBA

ins. contr

interm.

amortization/impairment
At January 1

Software

Total
2016

portf.
43

48

158

42

291

-

5

4

2

10

At December 31

43

52

162

44

301

Net book value at

25

22

8

5

60

Amortization / impairment
through income statement

December 31

Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, considering the higher of the value in use and fair value
less costs to sell. With the exception of goodwill, all intangible assets have a finite useful life and
are amortized accordingly. VOBA insurance contracts currently recognized are amortized over the
duration of the related contracts with an average remaining amortization period of 4 years (2016:
5 years). Software is generally depreciated over an average period of 5 years. At December 31,
2017, the remaining average amortization period was 5 years.
Amortization and impairment through the income statement is included in note 35 ‘Commissions
and expenses’. None of the intangible assets have titles that are restricted or have been pledged
as collateral for liabilities.
On October 31, 2017 Aegon Nederland sold its shares in Unirobe Meeùs Groep (UMG). As a result
all goodwill, VOBA and other intangibles (e.g. software) related to UMG are derecognized. This is
included in as ‘other movements’.

16.

Equity

2017
Share capital

2016
24

24

Share premium

1.645

645

Revaluation reserves

1.244

1.716

Retained earnings

3.939

3.103

Shareholders' equity

6.851

5.487

Non-controlling interests
Group equity

10

8

6.861

5.495

There are restrictions on the distribution to shareholders of the revaluation reserve on real estate
and revaluations relating to financial instruments that are not actively traded / quoted, which are
part of retained earnings.
Page 134 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Share capital

2017

2016

Authorized share capital

50

Not issued

26

50
26

24

24

The authorized share capital is EUR 50 million, divided into 100,000 shares of EUR 500 nominal
value each, of which 47,194 shares have been issued and fully paid up. There have been no changes
since the previous financial year. Aegon Nederland can only pay dividend to Aegon Europe Holding
B.V. Aegon Nederland paid no dividend to Aegon N.V. in 2017 or 2016.
Under Dutch law the amount available for distribution as dividend to the shareholder can be
calculated as total equity, deducted by the amount of the outstanding share capital (both the paidin and the not paid-in amount on the share capital) and the amount equal to the legal and statutory
reserves.
Furthermore, the Dutch insurance subsidiaries of Aegon Nederland may terminate proposed
distributions of dividend where there is non-compliance with the solvency capital requirement or
the distribution of dividend would lead to non-compliance with the solvency capital requirement.
In such circumstances, a distribution of dividend may only take place if (i) DNB has exceptionally
waived the cancellation of proposed dividend, (ii) the distribution would not lead to a further
deterioration of the solvency position of the insurance subsidiary and (iii) the minimum capital
requirement is still complied with after completion of the distribution.
In addition, Aegon Nederland’s subsidiary Aegon Bank is not allowed to pay dividend to its
shareholder if a distribution would lead to a deterioration of the capital position of Aegon Bank,
such that the capital requirements, as prescribed in article 3:62b of the Dutch Financial Supervision
Act would no longer be complied with. However, notwithstanding article 3:62b of the Dutch
Financial Supervision Act, Aegon Bank may distribute dividend, subject to the prior notification to
the Dutch Central Bank, up to the amount of the Maximum Distributable Amount (MDA), as referred
to in article 141(4) of the Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR).

Share premium

2017
At January 1

645

2016
645

Capital contributions

1.000

-

At December 31

1.645

645

During 2017 Aegon N.V., the ultimate parent company of Aegon Nederland N.V., decided to
improve the capital position of, Aegon Nederland’s subsidiary Aegon Levensverzekering. This was
done through two capital contributions in terms of share premium by Aegon Europe Holding B.V.
of respectively EUR 200 million on July 7, 2017 and EUR 800 million on August 31, 2017.

Page 135 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Revaluation reserves

2017
At January 1

2016

1.716

2.051

Gross revaluation

-399

-206

Net (gains) / losses transferred to income statement

-184

-189

Tax effect

138

62

Other movements

-27

-2

At December 31

1.244

1.716

There are restrictions on the distribution to shareholders of the revaluation reserve on real estate
and revaluations relating to financial instruments that are not actively traded / quoted.

2017
Shares
Debt securities

2016
26

38

2.301

2.829

Investments in joint ventures

-

-1

Participations

3

43

Real estate held for own use
Investments in associates

4

3

15

17

Total AFS investments

2.349

2.929

Shadow accounting

-1.105

-1.214

Total revaluation reserves

1.244

1.716

The LAT deficit in the insurance liability at year-end 2017 amounts to EUR 1,425 million (2016:
EUR 1,567 million). After tax deficit amounts to EUR 1,105 million (2016: 1,214 million). Aegon
Nederland applies shadow accounting. For more information on the accounting principles used in
the liability adequacy test refer to note 2.17.5 “shadow accounting” and note 3.3 “valuation of
assets and liabilities arising from life insurance contracts”.
Due to the deficiency in the liability adequacy test in 2017, the insurance liabilities as per the yearend are de facto measured at accounting principles used in the liability adequacy test.

Non-controlling interests
The non-controlling interests relates to the other equity instruments (“participations”) issued by
subsidiary Aegon Bank. Aegon Bank has issued 1,900 subordinated perpetual liabilities
(participations) with a corresponding value of EUR 10 million (2016: 1,571 participations with a
corresponding value of EUR 8 million). Based on the specific characteristics the participation
qualifies as tier 1 capital under the applicable banking regulations. Due to the nature of the
participation, the instrument also qualifies as equity under IFRS. Owners of participations receive
a discount on their banking fees. This discount on the fee is netted on the corresponding fee income.
The interest charges are treated as dividend in the statement of equity. The dividend is shown on
a net basis. This includes the deducted dividend tax on the discount and the interest.

Page 136 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

17.

Insurance contracts

Note
Life insurance

17.1

2017

2016

33.386

33.863

Non-life insurance
- Unearned premiums and unexpired risks
- Outstanding claims
- Incurred but not reported claims
17.2
Total insurance contracts

65

64

584

587

347

391

996

1.041

34.382

34.904

Life insurance
Movements during the year in life insurance

Movements during the year:
At January 1

2017

2016

33.863

31.285

Gross premiums

846

985

Unwind of discount / interest credited

921

926

-2.040

-1.907

-779

2.457

Insurance liabilities released
Changes in valuation of expected future benefits
Portfolio transfers and acquisitions

249

101

Expense loadings released

-99

-103

Net exchange differences
Movement unamortized interest rate contracts
Other
At December 31

-3

2

335

116

92

1

33.386

33.863

The life insurance contract liabilities decreased by EUR 477 million (2016: increase of 2,577
million). The change in valuation of expected future benefits mainly relates to a decreased value
of guarantees due to increased interest rates and the adjustment of the LAT deficit. In 2017 the
line item ‘other’ mainly consists of pension contracts which upon renewal were transferred from
‘insurance contracts for account of policyholders’ to ‘insurance contracts’. The remainder is the
result of the sale of UMG.
The LAT deficit in the insurance liability at year-end 2017 amounts to EUR 1,425 million (2016:
EUR 1,567 million). After tax deficit amounts to EUR 1,105 million (2016: 1,214 million). Aegon
Nederland applies shadow accounting.
Due to the deficiency in the liability adequacy test in 2017, the insurance liabilities as per the end
of 2017 are de facto measured at accounting principles used in the liability adequacy test.
For more information on the accounting principles used in the liability adequacy test refer to 2.17.5
“shadow accounting” and 3.3 “valuation of assets and liabilities arising from life insurance
contracts”.

Page 137 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Movements during the year in deferred interest rebates

2017
At January 1

2016

1.174

1.058

Rebates or future interest compensation granted

411

167

Amortization through income statement

-75

-51

1.509

1.174

At December 31

The deferred interest contracts form part of the insurance liabilities of Aegon Nederland. As a result
of the low interest rate environment, policyholders paid a surplus on the premium where previously
a premium discount was given. The life insurance liabilities include the provision for interest
guarantees. See note 19 ‘Guarantees’ for more information.

Non-life insurance

2017

2016

Accident and health insurance

851

General insurance

145

889
152

Total

996

1.041

Movements during the year in non-life insurance

2017
At January 1
Gross premiums - existing and new business
Changes in unearned premiums
Changes in incurred but not reported claims

1.041

1.444

351

476

-350

-500

-43

-23

Unwind of discount / interest credited
Incurred related to current year

2016

7

8

185

205

Incurred related to prior years

17

-83

Release for claims settled current year

-105

-94

Release for claims settled prior years

-107

-48

-

-343

996

1.042

Transfer due to sale of portfolio
At December 31

Run off result

2017

2016

Accident and health insurance

99

General insurance

10

-5

109

31

Total

36

A net release from the non-life claims reserve is shown as a positive figure and a net addition as a
negative figure.
The Accident and health insurance run off result increased from EUR 36 million in 2016 to EUR 99
million in 2017 due to model changes in the WIA and regular run-off results in WIA and AOV. See
note 3.2 change in estimates as well.

Page 138 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Claims history (gross and net)

Estimated gross cumulative claims, before reinsurance (in EUR million)
2017
Year-end financial year

2016

2015

2014

2013

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

Total

296

356

516

514

542

522

471

479

479

505

After 1 year

-

332

539

570

600

563

506

514

492

496

After 2 years

-

-

512

567

579

547

494

494

473

457

After 3 years

-

-

-

553

570

537

479

466

465

454

After 4 years

-

-

-

-

548

509

479

482

469

440

After 5 years

-

-

-

-

-

494

456

475

464

396

After 6 years

-

-

-

-

-

-

450

480

454

395

After 7 years

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

477

470

392

After 8 years

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

465

402

After 9 years

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

400

296

332

512

553

548

494

450

477

465

400

-105

-157

-325

-391

-434

-411

-386

-425

-418

-369

-29

-75

-56

-39

-26

-21

-14

-8

-9

146

112

106

75

57

43

38

39

22

Estimated cumulative
claims
Cumulative payments
Total from discontinued
operations*

191
Outstanding claims

829
103

prior year (<2008
Outstanding claims in

932

financial statements
(including IBNR)

* The line 'Total from discontinued operations' in the table above includes payments made to Allianz for the transfer of outstanding claims in relation to the
sold underlying insurance portfolio in 2016.

Page 139 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Estimated net cumulative claims, after reinsurance (in EUR million)

+
2017
Year-end financial year

2016

2015

2014

2013

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

Total

296

353

516

513

535

518

471

479

478

501

After 1 year

-

328

538

570

594

559

504

514

492

495

After 2 years

-

-

511

566

575

544

492

492

471

455

After 3 years

-

-

-

552

567

534

478

465

465

453

After 4 years

-

-

-

-

545

505

478

480

469

439

After 5 years

-

-

-

-

-

490

455

474

464

395

After 6 years

-

-

-

-

-

-

450

480

454

393

After 7 years

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

476

470

390

After 8 years

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

465

401

After 9 years

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

398

296

328

511

552

545

490

450

476

465

398

-105

-155

-325

-390

-433

-409

-386

-425

-418

-368

-27

-74

-56

-39

-26

-21

-14

-8

-9

146

112

106

73

55

43

37

39

21

Estimated cumulative
claims
Cumulative payments
Total from discontinued
operations*

191
Outstanding claims

823
102

prior year (<2008
Outstanding claims in

925

financial statements
(including IBNR)

* The line 'Total from discontinued operations' in the table above includes payments made to Allianz for the transfer of outstanding claims in relation to the
sold underlying insurance portfolio in 2016.

Page 140 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

18.

Insurance contracts for account of policyholders

Movements during the year in insurance contracts for account of policyholders

2017
At January 1

2016

26.275

25.830

Gross premiums

859

907

Unwind of discount / interest credited

722

1.113

Change in unit linked account value
Insurance liabilities released
Changes in valuation of expected future benefits

188

269

-2.330

-1.602

108

275

Portfolio transfers and acquisitions

-299

-385

Expense loadings released

-116

-132

Other
At December 31

180

-

25.587

26.275

In 2017 the line item ‘other’ mainly consists of pension contracts which upon renewal were
transferred from ‘insurance contracts for account of policyholders’ to ‘insurance contracts’. The
remainder is the result of the sale of UMG.

19.

Guarantees

For financial reporting purposes Aegon Nederland distinguishes between the following types of
minimum guarantees:

Financial guarantees. These guarantees are treated as bifurcated embedded derivatives,
valued at fair value and presented as derivatives (refer to note 19.1 ‘Financial guarantees’);

Minimum investment return guarantees: these guarantees are not bifurcated from their
host contracts, valued at fair value and presented together with the underlying insurance
contracts (refer to note 19.2 ‘Minimum investment return guarantees).

Financial guarantees
Individual variable unit-linked products have a minimum benefit guarantee if premiums are
invested in certain funds. The sum insured at maturity or upon the death of the beneficiary has a
minimum guaranteed return (in the range of 3% to 4%) if the premium has been paid for a
consecutive period of at least ten years and is invested in a mixed fund and/or fixed-income funds.
No guarantees are given for equity investments only.
The following table provides information on the liabilities for financial guarantees for minimum
benefits, net of present value of the expected future premiums that are received to cover these
guarantees:

2017
At January 1
Changes in valuation of expected future benefits

2016

1.555

1.432

-8

123

At December 31

1.547

1.555

Account value

8.805

8.957

Net amount at risk

1.737

1.972

Page 141 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Balances are included in the derivatives liabilities on the face of the statement of financial position;
refer to note 8 ‘Derivatives’. The net amount at risk represents the difference between the amount
payable under the guarantees and the account value at balance sheet date. Account value reflects
the actual fund value for the policyholders.

Minimum investment return guarantees
The traditional life and pension products offered by Aegon Nederland include various products that
accumulate a cash value. Premiums are paid by customers at inception or over the term of the
contract. The accumulation products pay benefits on the policy maturity date, subject to survival
of the insured. In addition, most policies also pay death benefits if the insured dies during the term
of the contract. The death benefits may be stipulated in the policy or depend on the gross premiums
paid to date. Premiums and amounts insured are established at inception of the contract. The
amount insured can be increased as a result of profit sharing, if provided for under the terms and
conditions of the product. Minimum interest guarantees exist for all generations of traditional
accumulation products written. Older generations contain a 4% guarantee; in 1999 the guarantee
decreased to 3% and in 2013 the guarantee decreased to 0%.
The traditional group pension contracts offered by Aegon Nederland include large group insurance
contracts that have an individually determined asset investment strategy underlying the pension
contract. The guarantee given is that the profit sharing is the maximum of 0% and the realized
return on an asset portfolio specified in the policy conditions adjusted for technical interest rates
ranging from 3% to 4%. If the adjusted return is negative, the 0% minimum is effective, but the
loss in any given year is carried forward to be offset against any future surpluses within the contract
period. In general, a guarantee is given for the life of the underlying employees so that their
pension benefit is guaranteed. Large group contracts also share technical results (mortality risk
and disability risk). The contract period is typically five years and the premiums are fixed over this
period. These guarantees are valued at fair value and are included as part of insurance liabilities
with the underlying host insurance contracts. The following table provides information on the
liabilities for guarantees that are included in the valuation of the host contracts, net of the present
value of the expected future premiums that are received to cover these guarantees.

2017
At January 1
Changes in valuation of expected future benefits
At December 31
Account value
Net amount at risk

5.542

2016
4.741

-823

801

4.719

5.542

18.754

19.467

4.440

5.017

The table represents the guaranteed minimum investment return. Balances are included in the
insurance liabilities on the face of the statement of financial position. Changes in valuation of
expected future benefits mainly comprise the effect of guarantees from new contracts, releases
related to expired out-of-the-money guarantees and fair value movements during the reporting
year. Account value reflects the liability value of the insurance contracts as a whole. The net amount
at risk represents the sum of the differences between the guaranteed and actual amount that
credited to the policyholders. For individual policies only positive differences are included, for Group
pensions contracts carry forwards of negative differences are recognized.

Page 142 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Fair value measurement of guarantees
The fair values of guarantees mentioned above are calculated as the present value of future
expected guarantee payments to policyholders less the present value of assessed rider fees
attributable to the guarantees. Aegon Nederland utilizes different risk management strategies to
mitigate the financial impact of the valuation of these guarantees on the results including asset
and liability management and derivative hedging strategies to hedge certain aspects of the market
risks embedded in these guarantees.

2017
Effect of guarantees on earnings before tax:

2016

830

-925

547

-1.261

30

280

Main drivers of this effect:
- results related to movement in risk free interest rates
- results related to movement in equity volatilities
- results related to movement in own credit spread
Total

-379

216

198

-765

The remainder mainly relates to other results of EUR 450 million driven by client data (e.g. exit of
clients, contract renewals) and the performance of underlying assets (EUR 150 million)”. Refer to
note 40.1.8. ‘Embedded derivatives in insurance contracts including guarantees’ for information on
the determination of the fair value of these guarantees.
2017
Hedges related to these guarantees contributed to

-945

2016
935

earnings before tax:

20.

Savings deposits

2017

2016

At January 1

8.814

Deposits

7.665

6.423

-6.993

-4.776

Withdrawals
Interest credited

7.101

83

67

At December 31

9.568

8.814

Current

7.734

7.617

Non-current

1.835

1.197

9.568

8.814

The savings deposits comprise EUR 620 million of savings related to ‘Bankspaarhypotheken’ (2016:
EUR 481 million). The received deposits related to the ‘Bankspaarhypotheken’ are directly invested
in a sub participation of the mortgage of the specific client. The sub participation in the mortgages
and the related deposits are shown gross in the financial statements as there is no intention to
(directly) settle the deposit with the mortgage.
The carrying amounts disclosed reasonably approximate the fair values at year-end.

Page 143 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

21.

Investment contracts

2017

2016

At January 1

229

Withdrawals

-10

-10

219

229

At December 31

239

This item relates to the Verzekeringsgroep Metaalindustrie (VGMI) contract and is repaid evenly
over 26 years starting from 2012. The fair value as at December 31, 2017 is EUR 214 million
(2016: EUR 230 million).

22.

Investment contracts for account of policyholders

2017
At January 1
Deposits
Derecognition

2016

466

282

22

163

-365

-

-

-7

Withdrawals
Revaluation
At December 31

10

29

133

466

This item consist of the investments held for account of the participants of Aegon PPI. These
liabilities are non-current. In 2017, the investment contracts for account of policyholders decreased
mainly due to derecognition of a part of the portfolio of Aegon PPI. Based on the changes in the
risks associated to that part of the portfolio, it was concluded that Aegon PPI no longer controls
that part of portfolio which resulted in the derecognition.

23.

Borrowings and group loans

2017
Debentures and other loans
Group loans

5.872

2016
5.971

711

1.147

Total

6.582

7.118

Current

1.634

2.548

Non-current

4.948

4.570

Total

6.582

7.118

The carrying amounts disclosed reasonably approximate fair value at year-end.

Page 144 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Debentures and other long-term loans
The table below represents the carrying amount of all debentures and other long-term loans outstanding.

Coupon

Coupon

Issue /

rate

date

maturity

FORD

Legal

2017

2016

maturity
date

EUR 1.365 million 'Saecure 12' RMBS Note

floating

quarterly

2012 / 17

Oct. 2017

Oct. 2092

-

EUR 750 million 'Saecure 13 NHG' RMBS Note

floating

quarterly

2012 / 18

Feb. 2018

Nov. 2093

750

1.030
862

EUR 1.367 million 'Saecure 14' RMBS Note

floating

quarterly

2014 / 19

Jan. 2019

Jan. 2092

994

1.126

EUR 1.443 million 'Saecure 15' RMBS Note

floating

quarterly

2014 / 20

Jan. 2020

Jan. 2092

1.164

1.284

EUR 750 million Conditional Pass Through Covered Bond

fixed

Annually

2015 / 20

-

Dec. 2020

747

747

EUR 500 million Conditional Pass Through Covered Bond

fixed

Annually

2016 / 23

-

May 2023

496

495

EUR 500 million Conditional Pass Through Covered Bond

fixed

Annually

2017 / 27

-

June 2027

486

-

EUR 500 million Conditional Pass Through Covered Bond

fixed

Annually

2017 / 24

-

Nov. 2024

497

-

Loan facilities warehouse mortgage loans

floating

monthly

- / 2019

-

-

515

399

Loan facility pre funding mortgage loans

floating

monthly

- / 2017

-

-

214

24

-

-

9

4

5.872

5.971

Other
Total

-

-

-

Page 145 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Residential mortgage backed securities (RMBS)
The RMBS notes were issued under the Dutch Saecure program. The net proceeds were used to
finance a part of the existing Dutch mortgage portfolio of Aegon’s life business. The expected
maturity of the RMBS notes is derived from the FORD which stands for the first optional redemption
date. At this date Aegon Levensverzekering has the first right to repurchase the underlying
mortgages from the SPE. The legal maturity date of the RMBS notes is related to the underlying
mortgage loans with the longest legal maturity. All these notes are fully collateralized by mortgage
loans which are part of the general account investments of Aegon Levensverzekering. During 2017
the mortgages from Saecure 12 were repurchased at FORD. In February 2018, Saecure 13 was
called at FORD.
Covered bond
In 2015, Aegon Bank has entered into a EUR 5 billion Conditional Pass-Through Covered Bond
Program. Under this Program, the payment of interest and principal is guaranteed by an Aegon
administered structured entity, Aegon Conditional Pass-Through Covered Bond Company B.V. (the
Company). In order for the Company to fulfil its guarantee, Aegon Bank legally transfers mortgage
loans originated by Aegon affiliates to the Company. The Company is consolidated by Aegon
Nederland In 2015 Aegon Bank successfully placed its first covered bond transaction backed under
this program.
As per year end Aegon bank placed the following issues under the program:

Issue

Issue date

Nominal value

Maturity date

Interest
rate

Cobo 1

December 2015

EUR 750 million

December 2020

Cobo 2

May 2016

EUR 500 million

May 2023

0.25%

Cobo 3

June 2017

EUR 500 million

June 2027

0.75%

Cobo 4

November 2017

EUR 500 million

November 2024

0.38%

0.25%

Loan facilities warehouse and pre-funding mortgage loans
Committed financing takes place in a ‘warehouse’ structure for which a special purpose entity
(‘SPE'), Aegon Hypotheken Financiering B.V. (‘Aegon Hypotheken Financiering’), has been
incorporated. At the end of 2017, Aegon Hypotheken (a subsidiary of Aegon Nederland) borrowed
EUR 515 million via this warehouse structure (2016: EUR 399 million). The interest to be paid is
derived from Euribor rates with an additional spread.
In Q2 2016 Aegon Hypotheken entered into a loan agreement with a third party for temporarily
funding of mortgages. The loan is secured by pipeline mortgage loans provided by Aegon
Hypotheken. At year-end 2017 EUR 214 million has been drawn from EUR 250 million available
under this facility (2016: EUR 24 million has been drawn). Aegon Hypotheken has a total of
undrawn external committed financing arrangements available of EUR 1.271 million (2016: EUR
1.351 million).

Page 146 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Group loans

2017

2016

Loan Aegon Derivatives N.V.

431

Loan Aegon N.V.

280

113

At December 31

711

1.147

current

711

1.147

non-current
Total

1.034

-

-

711

1.147

The loan with Aegon Derivatives is cash collateral paid under derivatives transactions. Aegon
Derivatives settles this collateral with external parties on behalf of Aegon Nederland. The derivative
transactions are for ordinary operations. The collateral is the consequence of movements in market
values on derivatives and is settled on a daily basis. The loan with Aegon N.V. is loan facility largely
for temporarily funding of the mortgage portfolio. In total, EUR 500 million is available under this
facility. The facility has a floating interest and is secured by mortgages.

24.

Provisions

Movements in provisions

2017

Restructuring

Commissions

Legal

Other

Total

procedures
At January 1

2017

4

25

2

42

72

Additions charged to earnings

15

9

-

3

27

Used during the year

-7

-

-

-1

-9

Other movements

-2

-33

-

-15

-50

At December 31

9

-

2

28

39

Restructuring

Commissions

2016

Legal

Other

Total

procedures
At January 1
Additions charged to earnings
Unused amounts reversed

2016

13

27

2

37

79

1

-

1

11

12

-3

-

-

-

-3

-7

-3

-1

-6

-16

4

25

2

42

72

through the income statement
Used during the year
At December 31

2017
Current

2016
7

36

Non-current

32

35

Total

39

72

Page 147 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Restructuring provision relates to an update of the strategy has been announced regarding the
non-life business, resulting in a reduction of FTE in 2016. Furthermore this relates to the
reorganization of Aegon Nederland. An expense fit program is implemented to achieve a lower cost
level. The program continued in 2017.
The release of the Other provision mainly relates to commitment granted following the positive
verdict of the Dutch Court on the jointly - by Aegon and representatives of the Dutch harbor
workers and employers- submitted request to remove the restrictive condition of the statutory
reserve. The other movements mainly relates to the impact of the sale of UMG.

25.

Defined benefit liabilities

Total

2017

Retirement benefit plans

2016

2.628

Other post-employment benefit plans
Total

3.121

65

68

2.693

3.188

Movements during the year in defined benefit plans

2017

Retirement

Other

Total

postempl.

At January 1

benefit

benefit

plans

plans

3.121

68

77

-

77

134

2

136

-149

4

-146

12

-

12

-90

-7

-97

Reclassification
Defined benefit expenses
Remeasurements of defined benefit plans
Contributions by plan participants
Benefits paid
Deconsolidation UMG
At December 31

2016

2017

3.188

-478

-

-478

2.628

65

2.693

Retirement

Other

Total

postempl.

At January 1

benefit

benefit

plans

plans

2016

2.683

61

2.744

Defined benefit expenses

130

3

132

Remeasurements of defined benefit plans

319

9

328

Plan asset revaluation

62

Contributions by plan participants

11

-

11

-84

-5

-90

3.121

68

3.188

Benefits paid
At December 31

62

Page 148 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Amounts recognized in the statement of financial position as at December 31, 2017 and 2016
The table below shows the movements during the year of the present value of the wholly unfunded
obligations.

2017
At January 1

2016

3.188

2.744

Current year service costs

86

65

Interest expense (based on discount rate)

54

67

Reclassification

77

-

108

29

-254

299

Remeasurement of the net defined liability:
- Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in demographic
assumptions
- Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial
assumptions
Past service cost

-5

-

-

62

Plan asset revaluation
Contributions by plan participants

12

11

-97

-90

-478

-

2.693

3.188

Benefits paid
Deconsolidation UMG
At December 31

Defined benefit expenses

2017

Retirement

Other

Total

postempl.
benefit

benefit

plans

plans

2017

Current year service cost

85

1

Past service cost

-5

-

-5

Interest expenses

54

1

54

134

2

136

Total defined benefit expenses

2016

Retirement

Other

86

Total

postempl.
benefit

benefit

plans

plans

2016

Current year service cost

63

2

Interest expenses

66

1

67

130

3

132

Total defined benefit expenses

65

Defined benefit expenses are included in note 35 ‘Commissions and expenses’ in the income
statement.

Page 149 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Retirement benefit plans
As all pension obligations are insured at subsidiary Aegon Levensverzekering almost all assets held
by Aegon Nederland backing retirement benefits of EUR 2,457 million (2016: EUR 2,796 million)
do not meet the definition of plan assets and as such were not deducted in calculating this amount.
Instead, these assets are recognized as general account assets. Consequently, the return on these
assets does not form part of the calculation of defined benefit expenses.
Aegon Nederland has a number of defined benefit plans and a small number of defined contribution
plans. The defined benefit plans are subject to Dutch Pension regulations and governed by the
Board of Directors of Aegon Nederland. The Board of Directors has the full power and discretion to
administer the plan including developing investment policy and managing assets for the plans
(although these assets do not qualify as ‘plan assets’ as defined by IFRS), deciding questions
related to eligibility and benefit amounts, and any disputes that may arise from plan participants
and for complying with the plan provisions, and legal requirements related to the plan and its
operation. Aegon Nederland runs, in principle, full actuarial and investment risk regarding the
defined benefit plans, this includes the risks of low interest rates, low returns and increased
longevity. A part of this risk can be attributed to plan participants by lowering indexation or by
increasing employee contributions.
Furthermore, the specific statutory requirements governing the administration of group pension
schemes have been laid down in the Pension Act (Pensioenwet / Pw). Insurers are subject to
prudential supervision pursuant to the Financial Supervision Act (Wet op het financieel toezicht /
Wft)
Investment strategies are established based on asset and liability studies. The overall goal is to
maximize total investment returns to provide sufficient funding for the present and anticipated
future benefit obligations within the constraints of a prudent level of portfolio risk. These studies
use for example return objectives and various investment instruments. Investment restrictions are
updated regularly and they result in asset allocation mix and hedges.
The contributions to the retirement benefit plan of Aegon Nederland are paid by both the employees
and the employer, with the employer contribution being variable5. The benefits covered are
retirement benefits, disability, death and survivor pension and are based on an average wage
system. The defined benefit plans were unfunded by EUR 2,628 million at December 31, 2017.
(2016: EUR 3,121 million). The defined benefit plans are largely backed by investment, although
these assets do not qualify as ‘plan assets’ as defined by IFRS. The average remaining duration of
the defined benefits obligation is 19.6 years (2016: 19.8 years).
Sale of UMG
As a consequence of the sale of UMG to Aon Groep Nederland on October 31, 2017, the defined
benefit obligation (DBO) and the assets backing the DBO related to UMG have been derecognized.
This resulted in a decrease of the ‘DBO’ and ‘insurance contracts for general account’ of EUR 478
million. On the other hand the pension contract between UMG and Aegon Levensverzekering N.V.
is no longer eliminated. This resulted in an increase of the ‘insurance contracts for risk of policy
holders’ and ‘investments for account of policyholders’ of EUR 442 million.
Plan amendments
The minimum tax-qualified retirement age for occupational retirement plans in the Netherlands is
triggered by an increase in average life expectancy as determined by the Central Bureau of
Statistics. Effective January 1, 2018, the tax-qualified retirement age in combination with the
maximum annual benefit accrual of 1.875% becomes 68. As a result Aegon has changed the
retirement age of its pension plan from 67 to 68 years as from January 1 2018.

5Aegon

Nederland deducts employee contributions from the total pension expenses.
Page 150 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Other post-employment benefit plans
Aegon Nederland also has a post-retirement medical plan that contributes to the health care
coverage of employees and beneficiaries after retirement. For this plan, Aegon Nederland has the
responsibility to administer the plan in accordance with its terms, and decides on questions related
to eligibility and determines plan provisions and benefit amounts. In addition, Aegon Nederland
has the obligation to interpret the provisions of the plans, and to comply with any statutory
reporting and disclosure requirements. Finally, Aegon Nederland reviews the terms of the plans
and makes changes to the plans if and when appropriate. The liabilities related to these other postemployment benefit plans are fully unfunded and amount to EUR 65 million at December 31, 2017
(2016: EUR 68 million). The weighted average duration of the other post-employment benefit plans
is 11.9 years (2016: 10.8 years).
Actuarial assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at year-end6
The principal actuarial assumptions that apply for the year-ended December 31 are as follows:

2017

2016

NL mortality table*

NL mortality table**

Demographic actuarial assumptions:
Mortality
Financial actuarial assumptions:
Discount rate (shock + / - 100 basis points)

2.09%

1.79%

Wage inflation (shock + / - 100 basis points

curve 2017

curve 2016

Indexation (shock + / - 25 basis points)

44.10% of

45.20% of

curve 2017

curve 2016

*Dutch Actuarial Society 2017 prospective mortality table with minor methodology adjustments.
**Dutch Actuarial Society 2013 prospective mortality table with minor methodology adjustments.
These tables are regularly assessed against the most recent mortality trends.

The principal actuarial assumptions have an effect on the amounts reported for the defined benefit
obligation. A change as indicated in the table below in the principal actuarial assumptions of the
retirement benefit plan would have the following effects per year-end:

Estimate approximate effects on the defined benefit obligation in
2017
In EUR million
+

-

-69

77

Discount rate (shock + / - 100 basis points)

-447

605

Wage inflation (shock + / - 100 basis points

16

-16

140

-128

Demographic actuarial assumptions:
Mortality rate (shock + / - 10% mortality rate)
Financial actuarial assumptions:

Indexation (shock + / - 25 basis points)

6 Based on prospective mortality table of the Dutch Actuarial Society with minor methodology adjustments. These tables are

regularly assessed against the most recent mortality trends.
Page 151 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Estimate approximate effects on the defined benefit obligation in
2016
In EUR million
+

-

-83

94

Discount rate (shock + / - 100 basis points)

-545

732

Wage inflation (shock + / - 100 basis points

19

-19

170

-158

Demographic actuarial assumptions:
Mortality rate (shock + / - 10% mortality rate)
Financial actuarial assumptions:

Indexation (shock + / - 25 basis points)

Demographic assumptions
Mortality (shock + / - 10% mortality rate)
The mortality table used is the projected Aegon table which is annually updated for experience
results. Changing the mortality rates changes the cash flow expectations. Increasing (decreasing)
the mortality rates for one year decreases (increases) the defined benefit obligation. Using the
same discount rate, but other expected cash flows determines the quantitative effect.
Economic assumptions
Discount rate (shock + / - 100 basis points)
The discount rate used in determining the defined benefit obligation is based on high quality (AA
rated) corporate bonds. Increasing (decreasing) the discount rate decreases (increases) the value
of the defined benefit obligation.
Wage inflation rate (shock + / - 100 basis points)
The benefits covered under the plans are based on an average wage system. This curve used as
inflation rate is the proxy for the Dutch Consumer Price Index in the projections of the defined
benefit obligation. Changing the wage inflation rate changes the expected benefits. Increasing
(decreasing) the wage inflation rate increases (decreases) the value of the defined benefit
obligation.
Indexation (shock + / - 25 basis points)
The benefits covered under the plans are chiefly dependent on price inflation. This curve used as
indexation rate is a percentage of the proxy for the Dutch Consumer Price Index in the projections
of the defined benefit obligation. The percentage indexation is determined taking into account the
price inflation curve and the amount available in the indexation depot. Increasing (decreasing)
indexation increases (decreases) the value of the defined benefit obligation.
The above sensitivity analysis is based on a change in one assumption while holding all other
assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions
may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant
actuarial assumptions the same method (present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated
with the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when
calculating the defined benefit obligation recognized within the statement of financial position.

Page 152 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Changes in assumptions
Change of discount rate
The discount rate changed form 1.79% to 2.09%. This increase is caused by market movements.
Interest rates at all maturities have increased over the year form about 20bps at 15 years to 30bps
at 40 years. Furthermore the credits with a long maturity pull the curve up before the extrapolation
point which strengthens the effect even more.
Change of mortality rates
During 2017 the mortality table is adjusted, the Aegon 2017 mortality table. Also the experience
adjustments have been updated during 2017. In 2017 a new gender–age-bucket experience
methodology has been developed which differentiates the experience mortality more granular in 4
different experience buckets. For each plan member a bucket is assigned according to the
methodology. This results in a loss on the defined benefit obligation in 2017.
Change of indexation benefits of active and inactive participants
Last year the expected indexation rate was 45.20% of the price inflation curve. This percentage is
estimated based on the indexation depot, since indexation is conditional on the means available
from the indexation depot. Following the price inflation curve as per December 31, 2017, the
expected indexation rate has been updated based on the expected indexation depot as per
December 1, 2017. The resulting indexation rate is 44.10% of the price inflation curve. As a
consequence of the update of the indexation rate a gain on the defined benefit obligation arises
during 2017.

Retirement

Other

benefit

post-

plans

Total

empl.
benefit
plans

2018

80

4

84

2019

81

4

85

2020

82

4

86

2021

83

4

87

2022

83

4

87

429

17

446

2023-2027

Expected contributions
The contributions to the defined benefit plans for the next annual reporting period are expected to
be in line with current year’s contributions.

26.

Deferred tax

2017
Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax liabilities
Total net deferred tax liability / (asset)

2016

908

942

1.121

1.225

212

284

Page 153 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Movement in deferred tax

2017

Real

Financial

Insurance

estate

Def.

Defined

Other

Total

expenses
assets

contracts

VOBA and

benefit

intang.

plan

2017

assets
At January 1

397

822

-884

3

-58

4

284

60

-28

-58

-1

68

-3

37

-

-172

34

-

36

-

-102

Charged to
income
statement
Charged to
equity
Other
At

-

-8

-

2

-

-

-6

457

613

-908

3

47

1

212

December
31

2016

Real

Financial

Insurance

estate

Def.

Defined

Other

Total

expenses
assets

contracts

VOBA and

benefit

intang.

plan

2016

Assets
At January 1
Charged to

351

552

-570

8

2

27

370

45

-21

40

-6

23

-23

57

-

291

-354

-

-82

-

-144

397

822

-884

3

-58

4

284

income
statement
Charged to
equity
At
December
31

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted if there is a legally enforceable right to net current tax
assets and liabilities and the deferred tax items relate to the same taxation authority. Deferred tax
assets are recognized for temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax losses and carry
forward of unused tax credits when, in the opinion of management, it is probable that they can be
utilized. All deferred taxes are non-current.
Deferred tax liabilities for prepayments and other taxes payable on the undistributed profits of
certain subsidiaries are not recognized. These undistributed profits amounted to EUR 1,759 million,
with a potential tax claim of EUR 440 million.
Loss carry forward
At year-end, there were no deferred tax assets for pre-consolidation losses available for carry
forward against future taxable profits (2016: nil).

Page 154 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

27.

Other liabilities and accruals

Note

2017

2016

Other liabilities

27.1

2.255

Accruals

27.2

138

95

2.393

2.771

Total

2.676

Other liabilities

2017
Payables due to policyholders

2016

387

Payables out of reinsurance

435

61

74

281

600

Income tax payable

75

154

Social security and taxes payable

58

59

Current account with group companies

22

62

Investment creditors

Cash collateral

232

94

Repurchase agreements

612

734

Share appreciation rights and LTIP

12

11

516

452

Total

2.255

2.676

Current

1.601

1.938

Other creditors

Non-current

655

738

2.255

2.676

The carrying amounts disclosed reasonably approximate the fair values at year end, given the
predominantly current nature of the other liabilities.

Accruals
This item relates to accrued interest with a term of less than one year. The carrying amount
disclosed reasonably approximates the fair value at year-end.

28.

Premium income and premiums to reinsurers

2017
Gross
Life
Non-life
Total

2016

Reinsurance

Gross

Reinsurance

1.854

9

2.012

351

7

476

8
5

2.205

16

2.488

13

Life
Premiums at the business line Life decreased which is partly caused by a shift from traditional
pension products to PPI, for which Aegon receives fees, and partly due to ongoing strong price
competition, especially in the midmarket segment. Furthermore, premiums were lower than last
year due to expired contracts which could not be offset by new production. The single premiums
were also lower than in 2016, mainly due to the declining market for individual life insurance
products as a result of strong competition from bank saving products.
Page 155 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Non-Life
Premiums from continuing operations

Accidents and illness

2017

2016

203.056

205.938

Motor vehicles;

21.674

18.381

Motor vehicles civil liability

35.245

37.142

Transport insurance

89

102

Fire

30.806

30.135

Other damage to property

30.128

29.416

General liability

12.935

12.660

Legal aid;

14.370

13.963

Relief operations
Total

2.317

2.352

350.621

350.089

Premium revenues of business line Non-Life, consisting of Accident and Health and General
Insurance, decreased by EUR 125 million. This is mainly caused by the divestment of the nonstrategic commercial portfolio in 2016. The premiums from continuing operations in 2017 have not
changed significantly compared to 2016. The damages from continues operations and outstanding
debt claims are lower in 2017, mainly due to a change of the WIA model and favorable claim
developments across the different lines of business. The operating costs increased due to the
change in the Aegon’s cost allocation model, higher allocated project expenses and several smaller
one-off items.

29.

Investment income

2017
Investment income related to general account
Investment income for account of policyholders

2016

1.684

1.620

490

514

2.173

2.134

Investment income consists of:

2017

2016

Interest income out of:
- Debt securities
- Loans
- Other investments
Dividend income from shares
Rental income from real estate
Total
Interest income accrued on impaired financial assets
Interest income on financial assets that are carried at fair

650

741

1.189

1.212

70

-76

210

203

55

54

2.173

2.134

8

13

1.573

1.656

value through profit or loss

Page 156 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Investment income from financial assets held for general account:

2017
Available-for-sale
Loans
Fair value through profit or loss

2016

367

429

1.194

1.218

3

1

Real estate

55

54

Derivatives

46

-99

Other

19

17

Total

1.684

1.620

Page 157 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

30.

Fee and commission income

2017
Commissions from intermediary activities
Fee income from asset management

2016

149

184

78

81

Administration fee income

102

88

Total

329

353

31.

Results from financial transactions

2017

2016

Realized gains / (losses) on financial investments

185

Gains / (losses) on investments in real estate

126

91

-1.058

678

738

1.305

Net fair value change of derivatives
Net fair value change on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss

188

for account of policyholder
Net foreign currency gains / (losses)

-28

6

Total

-38

2.268

Realized gains and losses on financial investments

2017
Shares (AFS)
Debt securities and money market investments (AFS)

2016
45

73

138

116

Loans

1

-1

Total

185

188

Page 158 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Net fair value change of derivatives comprise:

2017
Net fair value change on economic hedges where no hedge accounting is

2016

-1.045

782

Net fair value change on bifurcated embedded derivatives

-4

-123

Ineffectiveness hedge accounting / amortization base

-9

19

Total

-1.058

678

The ineffective portion of hedge transactions to

2017

applied

adjustment

2016

which hedge accounting is applied comprises:
Fair value change on hedging instruments in a fair value hedge
Fair value change on hedged items in fair value hedge
Of which amortization of the base-adjustment

126

-176

-135

195

-20

8

-9

19

Ineffectiveness fair value hedge / amortization base
adjustment

The table above shows amongst others the fair value movements of bifurcated embedded
derivatives (minimum guarantees on unit-linked policies) and the fair value of derivatives to hedge
certain risks in these guarantees and the guarantees included in group contracts and traditional
products.
Net fair value change on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss for account of
policyholders

2017
Shares
Debt securities and money market investments

2016

470

577

3

551

Other

265

177

Total

738

1.305

Page 159 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

32.

Other income

Aegon Nederland sold its shares in Unirobe Meeùs Groep (UMG), an independent financial advisory
group, to Aon Groep Nederland for EUR 295 million (EUR 172 million, net of cash). The transaction
is consistent with Aegon Nederland's strategic objective to optimize its portfolio across its
businesses. The divestment lead to a book gain of EUR 207 million pre-tax, which is reported as
“other income”. As a consequence of the sale the defined benefit obligation (DBO) and the assets
backing the DBO related to UMG have been derecognized. Aegon Nederland indemnifies and hold
UMG and Aon Groep Nederland harmless for and against any damage suffered or incurred which
are the result of the Unit Linked Insurance Claims, for a maximum of 10 years after the completion
date. The aggregate liability for Aegon Nederland is maximized at an amount equal to the sell price
(EUR 295 million). At this time, due to the nature and the type of Unit Linked Insurance Claims,
Aegon Nederland is unable to quantify a range or the timing of the financial impact, if any.
Therefore no contingent liability has been recognized.
In 2016 an amount of EUR 12 million was reported for the sale of the commercial line of the nonlife business from Aegon Nederland’s non-life subsidiary Aegon Schadeverzekering to Allianz
Benelux.

33.

Policyholder claims and benefits

2017
Claims and benefits paid to policyholders
Change in valuation of liabilities for insurance and

2016

4.430

3.726

-1.462

1.673

2.968

5.398

investment contracts
Total

Policyholders claims and benefits, includes claims and benefits in excess of account value for
products for which deposit accounting is applied and the change in valuation of liabilities for
insurance and investment contracts. The lower claims and higher benefits paid to policyholders
compared to 2016 is related to a large contract buy-out in 2017. The changes in valuation of
liabilities for insurance and investment contracts is the result of fair value changes of the guarantee
provision and insurance contracts for account of policyholders as a result of decrease in interest
rates. The change in valuation of liabilities for insurance and investment contracts include a gain
of EUR 989 million (2016: loss of EUR 719 million) regarding fair value movements of guarantees.
The policyholders claims and benefits from continuing operations for Aegon non-life business
decreased in 2017 by EUR 78 million due to the refined WIA model used in the WIA provision
calculation (for more details see note 3.2 Changes in estimates as well), more favorable actual
claims and more favorable AOV claims and benefits than expected.

34.

Profit sharing

2017
Surplus interest bonuses

2016
1

3

Profit appropriated to policyholders

12

37

Total

13

40

Page 160 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

35.

Commissions and expenses

2017
Commissions

2016
57

99

Employee expenses

479

485

Administration expenses

386

376

Deferred expenses

-11

-11

19

24

Amortization of deferred expenses
Amortization of VOBA
Total

8

8

938

981

Administration expenses
Administration expenses include depreciation and amortization. See the breakdown below.

2017
Depreciation of equipment

2016
11

11

Amortization of software

3

4

Depreciation of real estate held for own use

2

2

16

17

Total

Employee expenses

2017

2016

Salaries

228

232

Post-employment benefit costs

135

133

Social security charges

34

38

Other personnel costs

80

82

Shares, share appreciation rights, share options and LTIP
Total

2

1

479

485

Employees
The average number of employees is 4,113, including 161 agents (2016: 4,500, including 264
agents). Due to the sale of UMG and IAK the number of employees decreased as per 31 October
2017 by approximately 1,200 employees.

Page 161 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Variable compensation Identified Staff (LTIP)
Members of the Board of Directors as well as other selected jobholders have been defined as
'Identified Staff' in accordance with the rules applicable to them and their interpretations by
relevant authorities. Of these, the Dutch 2015 Act on compensation in the financial sector (Wet
beloningsbeleid financiële ondernemingen Wft), the Dutch 2014 Decree on sound remuneration
policy (Regeling beheerst beloningsbeleid 2014) are prominent examples. The rules have been
adopted in Aegon N.V.’s Global Remuneration Framework and consistently applied within Aegon
Nederland. After the performance period, and based on the framework, variable compensation, if
any, is partially made available and partly deferred. Variable compensation is paid in both cash and
in Aegon N.V. shares. The shares were conditionally granted at the beginning of the year at the
volume weighted average price (VWAP) on the Euronext stock exchange in Amsterdam during the
period between December 15, preceding a plan year and January 15, of the plan year. The
performance indicators apply over a performance period of one year and consist of Aegon N.V.
and/or Aegon Nederland targets (both financial and non-financial) set by the Supervisory Board or
the remuneration committee and personal/strategic targets. The conditional grant of variable
compensation is also dependent on continued employment of the individual employee to whom the
rights have been granted. An ex-post assessment is applicable to determine whether allocated
(unvested) variable compensation should become unconditional or should be adjusted. In addition,
for Members of the Board of Directors, Aegon Nederland's Supervisory Board has the right to
reclaim variable compensation that has already been paid out or vested. For members of the Board
of Directors all variable compensation has vested after three years following the performance
period. At vesting, the variable compensation is transferred to the individual employees. Additional
holding periods may apply for vested shares. Members of the Board of Directors are not entitled to
execute any transactions regarding the shares for a period of three years following vesting (with
the exception of shares withheld or sold to cover for the payment of any applicable taxes, social
security premiums and possible other deductions by the government due for which the company
holds a withholding obligation in connection with the vesting of the shares).
In compliance with regulations under Dutch law, no transactions regarding the shares may be
exercised in blackout periods.

Page 162 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

Total

Number of shares conditionally granted*

195.770

101.330

147.206

184.102

106.556

734.964

Number of shares allocated

238.553

127.075

144.352

157.500

-

667.480

Volume weighted average price used for grant in EUR
Fair value of shares at grant date in EUR

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

4.917

6.739

6.106

5.129

4.933

4.898 to

4.626 to

4.316 to

3.990 to

4.040 to

5.230

5.230

5.230

4.898

4.933

*Number of shares conditionally granted based on the at target number of grants made that could increase or decrease subject to the actual performance attained

2017

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

Total

44.212

47.254

78.912

184.102

-

354.480

Reversal conditionally granted

-

-

-

-184.102

-

-184.102

Number of shares conditionally granted*

-

-

-

-

106.556

106.556

Number of shares allocated

-

-

-

157.500

-

157.500

-44.212

-23.627

-26.304

-70.824

-

-164.967

-

23.627

52.608

86.676

106.556

269.467

Unvested at January 1

Number of shares vested
Unvested at December 31

2016

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Total

81.165

86.784

69.168

147.206

-

384.323

Reversal conditionally granted

-

-

-

-147.206

-

-147.206

Number of shares conditionally granted*

-

-

-

-

184.102

184.102

Number of shares allocated

-

-

-

144.352

-

144.352

-81.165

-42.572

-21.914

-65.440

-

-211.091

-

44.212

47.254

78.912

184.102

354.480

Unvested at January 1

Number of shares vested
Unvested at December 31

*Number of shares conditionally granted based on the at target number of grants made that could increase or decrease subject to the actual performance attained

Page 163 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

All share plans are recognized in the financial statements of Aegon Nederland as cash-settled share
based payment transactions since all grants are settled by Aegon Nederland in Aegon N.V. shares
via the current account with Aegon N.V. For the vested tranches in 2016 Aegon Nederland
introduced a net settlement option for participants to meet corporate income tax obligations. This
means that Aegon will not sell shares on the market, but hold these shares within Aegon and settle
directly with the tax authorities in cash rather than in shares.
The liability related to the above mentioned plan (both cash and Aegon NV shares) was EUR 12.3
million and is measured at fair value (2016: EUR 10.9 million), refer to note 27.1 ‘Other liabilities’.
The related expenses were EUR 2.1 million (2016: 0.5 EUR million).
Aegon Nederland provides for the full provision of the LTIP (both for Aegon N.V. and Aegon
Nederland) and recharges the LTIP for employees that work solely for Aegon N.V. to Aegon N.V.
Therefore only Aegon Nederland employees that solely work for Aegon Nederland are disclosed the
share movement analysis.
Remuneration Board of Directors
Current and former members of the Board of Directors are regarded as key management personnel.
The remuneration for current and former directors charged to the company in the financial year
pursuant to Section 383:1 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code is set out below (amounts in euro).

2017

2016

Members of the Board of Directors
Gross salary and social security contributions

3.078.093

2.869.723

Pension premium

282.611

389.150

Other benefits

532.718

432.910

3.893.421

3.691.783

Total

Variable compensation for members of the Board of Directors
As of 2010 rights have been granted to directors in the form of Long-term Incentive Plans under
the Variable compensation plan (‘LTIP’).
Under the 2017 LTIP, members of the Board of Directors were granted the right to receive 33,040
Aegon N.V. shares along with EUR 0.2 million in cash if certain performance indicators were met.
In 2018 the actual numbers of shares and amount of cash granted will be determined. These shares
and cash will be transferred to the board members in phases in the period 2018 to 2021.
Under the 2016 LTIP, members of the Board of Directors were granted the right to receive 81,450
Aegon N.V. shares along with EUR 0.4 million in cash if certain performance indicators were met.
In 2017 70,042 shares were eventually granted, along with EUR 0.4 million in cash. These shares
and cash are transferred to the board members in phases in the period 2017 to 2020.
Under the 2015 LTIP, members of the Board of Directors were granted the right to receive 93,785
Aegon N.V. shares along with EUR 0.6 million in cash if certain performance indicators were met.
In 2016 88,776 shares were eventually granted, along with EUR 0.5 million in cash. These shares
and cash are transferred to the board members in phases in the period 2016 to 2019.
Under the 2014 LTIP, members of the Board of Directors were granted the right to receive (a
maximum of) 68,428 Aegon N.V. shares along with EUR 0.6 million in cash if certain performance
indicators were met. In 2015 81,088 shares were eventually granted, along with EUR 0.5 million
in cash. These shares and cash are transferred to the board members in phases in the period 2015
to 2018.
Page 164 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Under the 2013 LTIP, members of the Board of Directors were granted the right to receive (a
maximum of) 142,813 Aegon N.V. shares along with EUR 0.9 million in cash if certain performance
indicators were met. In 2014 145,214 shares were eventually granted, along with EUR 0.7 million
in cash. These shares and cash are transferred to the board members in phases in the period 2014
to 2017.
Under the 2012 LTIP, members of the Board of Directors were granted the right to receive (a
maximum of) 267,912 Aegon N.V. shares along with EUR 1.0 million in cash if certain performance
indicators were met. In 2013 289,226 shares were eventually granted, along with EUR 0.8 million
in cash. These shares and cash were transferred to the board members in phases in the period
2013 to 2016.
The following table shows the movements in shares under the LTIP solely for the Board of Directors
These amounts are extracted from the movement table of the shares for “Variable compensation
Identified Staff”, that includes both Board of Directors as well as other employees.

Page 165 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

1
2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

Total

Number of shares conditionally granted*

142.813

68.428

93.785

81.450

33.040

419.516

Number of shares allocated

145.214

81.088

88.776

70.042

-

385.120

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

4.917

6.739

6.106

5.129

4.933

4.898 to

4.626 to

4.316 to

3.990 to

4.040 to

5.230

5.230

5.230

4.898

4.933

Volume weighted average price used for grant in EUR
Fair value of shares at grant date in EUR

*Number of shares conditionally granted based on the at target number of grants made that could increase or decrease subject to the actual performance attained

2017

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

Total

29.043

32.434

53.265

81.450

-

196.192

Reversal conditionally granted

-

-

-

-81.450

-

-81.450

Number of shares conditionally granted*

-

-

-

-

33.040

33.040

Number of shares allocated

-

-

-

70.042

-

70.042

-29.043

-15.992

-15.855

-25.768

-

-86.658

-

16.442

37.410

44.274

33.040

131.166

Unvested at January 1

Number of shares vested
Unvested at December 31

2016

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Total

49.375

58.086

48.651

93.785

-

249.897

Reversal conditionally granted

-

-

-

-93.785

-

-93.785

Number of shares conditionally granted*

-

-

-

-

81.450

81.450

Number of shares allocated

-

-

-

88.776

-

88.776

-49.375

-29.043

-16.217

-35.511

-

-130.146

-

29.043

32.434

53.265

81.450

196.192

Unvested at January 1

Number of shares vested
Unvested at December 31

*Number of shares conditionally granted based on the at target number of grants made that could increase or decrease subject to the actual performance attained

Page 166 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Mortgage loans Board of Directors
On the reporting date, the current members of the Board of Directors had mortgage loans totaling
EUR 2,984 thousand from a company associated with Aegon Nederland (2016: EUR 973 thousand)
at variable interest rates ranging from 1.79 to 5.30% (2016: 2.20% to 5.9%) in line with the terms
and conditions available to the employees of Aegon Nederland. Mortgages provided during the year
amount to EUR 930 thousand (2016: EUR 0) and repayments amount to EUR 25 thousand (2016:
EUR 424 thousand). Other movements within mortgages are the result of changes in the
composition of the Board of Directors. No other loans, guarantees or advance payments exist.
Remuneration Supervisory Board
Members and former members of the Supervisory Board are regarded as key management
personnel. The remuneration for current and former supervisory board members charged to the
company in the financial year pursuant to Section 383:1 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code was EUR
156 thousand (2016: EUR 144 thousand). This remuneration consists entirely of gross pay and the
employer’s share of social security charges. The members of the Supervisory Board employed by
Aegon N.V. did not receive any remuneration for their membership. No payments were made in
connection with severance schemes; no remuneration or rights attaching to shares were granted.

Page 167 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Mortgage loans Supervisory Board
On the reporting date, none of the Supervisory Board members had mortgage loans from a
company associated with Aegon Nederland and no other balances such as loans, guarantees or
advance payments exist.
Remuneration Independent Auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. has served as Aegon Nederland’s independent public
auditor during 2017 and audited these financial statements. The fees for services rendered to
Aegon Nederland need not be disclosed in this Annual Report, based on article 3:382 of Book 2 of
the Dutch Civil Code. The aggregate fees for professional services and other services rendered by
PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. to the whole group of Aegon N.V. are disclosed in the
Annual Report of Aegon N.V.

36.

Impairment charges

2017

2016

Impairment charges comprise:
Loans

16

Other

1

1

17

12

Total net impairment charges

12

Page 168 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

37.

Interest charges and related fees

2017
Borrowings

2016
26

36

Short-term liabilities and deposits

143

155

Total

168

191

Interest charges accrued on financial assets and liabilities

168

191

not carried at fair value through profit or loss

38.

Other charges

There were no other charges recognized during 2017 and 2016.

39.

Corporate income tax

2017

2016

Current tax
- current year

96

88

- adjustments to prior year

35

11

Deferred tax
- origination / (reversal) of temporary differences
- adjustment to prior year
Income tax for the period (income) / charge

71

67

-34

-10

168

156

Reconciliation between standard and effective corporate income tax:

2017

2016

Income before tax

895

726

Income tax calculated using weighted average applicable

224

181

statutory rates
Difference due to the effects of:
- non-taxable income

-58

-27

- non-tax deductible expenses

1

1

- adjustments to prior years

1

1

168

156

Income tax for the period (income) / charge

The weighted average applicable statutory tax rate for Aegon Nederland in 2017 and 2016 was
25% and will remain the same in 2018.

Page 169 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2017

2016

Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss:
Remeasurements of defined benefit plans

36

-82

37

-82

-93

-17

-45

-45

-

1

-139

-62

-102

-144

Items that may be reclassified subsequently to
profit and loss:
Gains / losses on revaluation of available-for-sale
investments
Gains / losses transferred to the income statement on
disposal and impairment of available-for-sale investments
Gains / losses on revaluation of investments in joint
ventures

Total income tax related to components of other
comprehensive income

40.

Fair value of assets and liabilities

The estimated fair values of assets and liabilities of Aegon Nederland correspond with the amounts
that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. When available, Aegon Nederland uses
quoted market prices in active markets to determine the fair value of investments and derivatives.
In the absence of an active market, the fair value of investments in financial assets is estimated
by using other market observable data, such as corroborated external quotes and present value or
other valuation techniques. An active market is one in which transactions are taking place regularly
on an arm’s length basis. Fair value is not determined based upon a forced liquidation or distressed
sale.
Valuation techniques are used when Aegon Nederland determines the market is inactive or quoted
market prices are not available for the asset or liability at the measurement date. However, the
fair value measurement objective remains the same, that is, to estimate the price at which an
orderly transaction to sell the asset or to transfer the liability would take place between market
participants at the measurement date under current market conditions (i.e. an exit price at the
measurement date from the perspective of a market participant that holds the asset or owes the
liability). Therefore, unobservable inputs reflect the own assumptions of Aegon Nederland about
the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability (including
assumptions about risk). These inputs are developed based on the best information available.
Aegon Nederland employs an oversight structure over valuation of financial instruments that
includes appropriate segregation of duties. Senior management, independent of the investing
functions, is responsible for the oversight of control and valuation policies and for reporting the
results of these policies. For fair values determined by reference to external quotation or evidenced
pricing parameters, independent price determination or validation is utilized to corroborate those
inputs. Further details of the validation processes are set out below.
Valuation of financial assets and liabilities is based on a pricing hierarchy, in order to maintain a
controlled process that will systematically promote the use of prices from sources in which Aegon
Nederland has the most confidence, where the least amount of manual intervention exists and to
embed consistency in the selection of price sources. Depending on asset type the pricing hierarchy
consists of a waterfall that starts with making use of market prices from indices and follows with
making use of third-party pricing services or brokers.
Page 170 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Fair value hierarchy
The table below provides an analysis of assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring
basis by level of the fair value hierarchy.

2017

Level

Level

Level

Total

I

II

III

2017

Assets carried at fair value
AFS investments
- Shares

-

1

44

45

15.468

4.132

184

19.784

- Other

-

21

9

30

Real estate held for own use

-

-

115

115

203

1.646

604

2.453

-

3

-

3

12.733

9.509

1.332

23.574

47

4.105

24

4.177

-

-

1.495

1.495

28.452

19.417

3.807

51.676

-

133

-

133

- Derivatives

4

4.086

1.550

5.640

Total liabilities

4

4.219

1.550

5.773

- Debt securities

FVTPL investments
- Shares
- Debt securities
- Investments for account of
policyholders
- Derivatives
- Investments in real estate
Total assets
Liabilities carried at fair value
- Investment contracts for account of
policyholders

Page 171 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2016

Level

Level

Level

Total

I

II

III

2016

Assets carried at fair value
AFS investments
- Shares

89

1

62

152

15.520

6.822

179

22.521

- Other

-

358

32

390

Real estate held for own use

-

-

120

120

- Debt securities

FVTPL investments
- Shares

103

1.250

50

1.404

13.904

10.171

1.217

25.292

25

5.285

73

5.384

-

-

1.238

1.238

29.641

23.887

2.972

56.501

-

466

-

466

- Derivatives

30

4.690

1.559

6.280

Total liabilities

30

5.157

1.559

6.746

- Investments for account of
policyholders
- Derivatives
- Investments in real estate
Total assets
Liabilities carried at fair value
- Investment contracts for account of
policyholders

Page 172 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Movements in Level III financial instruments measured at fair value

2017

As at

Result

Result

Purchases

Sales

Transfers

As at

Result

between

31-12-2017

year-end

income
1-1-2017

statement

OCI

I/II and III
Assets carried at fair value
AFS investments
- Shares
- Debt securities
- Other
Real estate held for own use

62

20

-12

41

-67

-

44

179

1

-1

13

-5

-3

184

20
1

32

12

-11

-

-25

-

9

12

120

-2

1

-4

-

-

115

-2

-11

FVTPL investments
- Shares

50

-11

-

583

-18

-

604

1.217

26

-

600

-527

16

1.332

25

73

-28

-

-

-21

-

24

-28

- Investments in real estate

1.238

126

-

237

-106

-

1.495

126

Total assets

2.972

143

-22

1.471

-770

13

3.807

142

- Derivatives

1.559

-9

-

-

-

-

1.550

-9

Total liabilities

1.559

-9

-

-

-

-

1.550

-9

- Investments for account of policyholders
- Derivatives

Liabilities carried at fair value

Page 173 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2016

As at

Result

Result

Purchases

Sales

Transfers

As at

Result

between

31-12-2016

year-end

income
1-1-2016

statement

OCI

I/II and III
Assets carried at fair value
AFS investments
- Shares
- Debt securities
- Other
Real estate held for own use

73

15

-12

-

-15

-

62

2.079

1

6

42

-47

-1.902

179

15
1

66

16

-13

-

-38

-

32

16

116

-2

-

7

-

120

-2

FVTPL investments
- Shares
- Investments for account of policyholders
- Derivatives

-

3

-

48

-

-

50

3

1.192

21

-

393

-312

-77

1.217

21

46

-17

-

44

-

-

73

-17

- Investments in real estate

1.148

91

-

88

-88

-

1.238

91

Total assets

4.720

128

-19

622

-499

-1.979

2.972

128

- Derivatives

1.437

123

-

-1

-

-

1.559

123

Total liabilities

1.437

123

-

-1

-

-

1.559

123

Liabilities carried at fair value

The total gains / (losses) in the last column relate to the total income in the financial year during which the financial instrument was held as Level III
instrument.

Page 174 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Some OTC derivatives are so-called longevity derivatives. The pay-out of longevity derivatives is
linked to publicly available mortality tables. The derivatives are measured using the present value
of the best estimate of expected pay-outs of the derivative plus a risk margin. The best estimate
of expected pay-outs is determined using best estimate of mortality developments. Aegon
determined the risk margin by stressing the best estimate mortality developments to quantify the
risk and applying a cost-of-capital methodology. The most significant unobservable input for these
derivatives is the interest rate due to the long duration of the derivatives. However, the interest
rate risk is taken into account in our interest rate hedging strategy. Therefor the net most
significant unobservable input is the (projected) mortality development.
Significant transfers between Levels I/II/III
During 2017 EUR 33 million were transferred from level II to level III as no longer quoted prices
were available. In addition EUR 20 million was transferred from level III to II as quoted prices were
available.
During 2016, Aegon Nederland transferred certain financial instruments from Level II to Level I of
the fair value hierarchy. The change in level was mainly the result of a return of activity in the
market for these securities and that for these securities the fair value could be determined using
observable market transactions or corroborated broker quotes for the same or similar instruments.
During 2016 there was one transfer from Level II to Level III. The transfer involved asset backed
securities bonds for an amount of EUR 16 million. In the past there were more brokers prices
available. In the fourth quarter the valuation is based on one Broker quote which means that the
instrument is deemed more illiquid. The transfers from Level III to Level II are all CLO bonds for
an amount of EUR 1,918 million. During 2016 the price source was changed from an internal model
which is created by FO to an external vendor Markit. The change to an external party valuation and
a valuation which is using more market observable data resulted in the level change.
During 2016, in respect of the FVTPL investments for account of policyholders one security was
transferred from level II to level III with a market value of EUR 4 million which relates to a Belgian
Finance company for which a broker quote is used and no Bloomberg price available. Level III is
used because there is no vendor but only one broker quote. EUR 22 million was transferred from
level III to level I. This relates to one security (supranational, issued by the International Bank for
Reconstruction) which was priced based on one broker quote and classified as level III but since
the third quarter of 2016 a vendor is used for pricing and therefore classified as level I.
Furthermore, EUR 59 million transferred from level III to II. This relates to several CLO’s.
There were no other significant transfers.

Page 175 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Significant unobservable assumptions
The table below presents information about the significant unobservable inputs used for recurring fair value measurements for certain Level III assets and
liabilities.

2017

Carrying

Valuation technique

Significant unobservable input*

Range

amount

Weighted
average

Assets carried at fair value
AFS investments
Shares
Debt securities - ABS

44

Broker quote

n.a.

n.a.

n.a.

184

Broker quote

n.a.

n.a.

n.a.

FVTPL
Derivatives
Investments in real estate
Real estate for own use
Total assets at fair value

Discounted cash flow

Mortality

5%

5%

1.495

24

External appraiser

n.a.

n.a.

n.a.

115

External appraiser

n.a.

n.a.

n.a.

Discounted cash flow

Credit spread

1.861

Liabilities carried at fair value
Derivatives
- Bifurcated embedded derivatives in insurance contracts

1.550

Total liabilities at fair value

1.550

0,2%

0,2%

*Not applicable (n.a.) has been included when no significant unobservable assumption has been identified and used or if the unobservable assumptions
were not available.

Page 176 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2016

Carrying

Valuation technique

Significant unobservable input*

Range

amount

Weighted
average

Assets carried at fair value
AFS investments
Shares
Debt securities - ABS

62

Broker quote

n.a.

n.a.

n.a.

179

Broker quote

n.a.

n.a.

n.a.

FVTPL
Derivatives
Investments in real estate
Real estate for own use
Total assets at fair value

Discounted cash flow

Mortality

5%

5%

1.238

73

External appraiser

n.a.

n.a.

n.a.

120

External appraiser

n.a.

n.a.

n.a.

Discounted cash flow

Credit spread

1.673

Liabilities carried at fair value
Derivatives
- Bifurcated embedded derivatives in insurance contracts

1.559

Total liabilities at fair value

1.559

0,4%

0,4%

* Not applicable (n.a.) has been included when no significant unobservable assumption has been identified and used or if the unobservable assumptions
were not available.
Investments for account of policyholders are excluded from the table above and from the disclosure regarding reasonably possible alternative assumptions.
Policyholder assets, and their returns, belong to policyholders and do not impact the net income or equity of Aegon Nederland. The effect on total assets is
offset by the effect on total liabilities.

Page 177 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives
The following table shows the sensitivity of the fair value of Level III instruments to changes in key assumptions, by class of instrument. The effect of an
increase of a reasonable possible alternative assumption on the carrying amount is shown in the column ‘positive’ and a decrease in the column ‘negative’.

2017

Carrying

Significant unobservable

amount

input

Note

Effect of reasonably possible alternative assumptions
positive

negative

Assets carried at fair value
FVTPL
Derivatives

24

Mortality

a

-29

45

Credit spread

b

-43

44

Liabilities carried at fair value
Derivatives
- Bifurcated embedded derivatives in insurance

1.550

contracts

Page 178 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2016

Carrying

Significant

amount

unobservable

Note

Effect of reasonably possible alternative
assumptions

input
positive

negative

Assets
carried at
fair value
FVTPL
Derivatives

73

Mortality

a

-40

59

Credit

b

-48

50

Liabilities
carried at
fair value
Derivatives
-

1.559

Bifurcated

spread

embedded
derivatives
in
insurance
contracts

The table above presents the impact on a fair value measurement of a change in an unobservable
input for financial instruments. The impact of changes in inputs may not be independent; therefore
the descriptions provided below indicate the impact of a change in an input in isolation.
a.

b.

Some OTC derivatives are so-called longevity derivatives. The pay-out of longevity
derivatives is linked to publicly available mortality tables. The derivatives are measured
using the present value of the best estimate of expected pay-outs of the derivative
plus a risk margin. The best estimate of expected pay-outs is determined using best
estimate of mortality developments. Aegon determined the risk margin by stressing
the best estimate mortality developments to quantify the risk and applying a cost-ofcapital methodology. Depending on the duration of the longevity swaps either the
projected mortality (+/- 5%) development or discount rate (+/- 100 bps) are the most
significant unobservable inputs.
To determine the fair value of the bifurcated embedded derivatives related to
guarantees, a discount rate is used including own credit spread. An increase in the own
credit spread results in lower valuation, while a decrease results in a higher valuation
of the embedded derivatives. Aegon Nederland increased or decreased the own credit
spread by 20 basis points.

Page 179 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Fair value information about assets and liabilities not measured at fair value
The following table presents the carrying values and estimated fair values of assets and liabilities,
excluding assets and liabilities which are carried at fair value on a recurring basis.
Certain financial instruments that are not carried at fair value are carried at amounts that
approximate fair value, due to their short-term nature and generally negligible credit risk. These
instruments include cash and cash equivalents, short-term receivables and accrued interest
receivable, short-term liabilities, accrued liabilities and borrowings and group loans. These
instruments are not included in the table below.
Furthermore, for certain financial instruments disclosed in the table below, the carrying amounts
of reasonably approximate the disclosed fair values at year-end. Therefore the unobservable inputs
regarding the fair value are listed as not applicable (n.a.).
All of the instruments disclosed in the table are held at amortized cost.

Page 180 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2017

Carrying

Total

amount

estimated

Level of fair value hierarchy

December

fair value,

31

December

Valuation

Unobservable inputs

technique

31
Level I

Level II

Level III

Assets
Mortgage loans
Private loans

26.802

30.926

-

-

30.926

3.590

4.038

-

-

4.038

50

50

-

50

-

2

2

-

2

-

Discounted

Discountfactor (a.o. based on consumer mortgage

cash flow

rates, risk free interest rate), prepayments

Discounted
cash flow

Deposits with
financial institutions
Policy loans

Discounted
cash flow
Discounted
cash flow

Liabilities
Savings deposits

9.568

9.676

-

-

9.676

219

214

-

-

214

Discounted
cash flow

Investment contracts

Discounted
cash flow

Page 181 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2016

Carrying

Total

amount

estimated

Level of fair value hierarchy

December

fair value,

31

December

Valuation

Unobservable inputs

technique

31
Level I

Level II

Level III

Assets
Mortgage loans
Private loans

25.357

29.479

-

-

29.479

3.124

3.510

-

-

3.510

40

40

-

40

-

3

3

-

3

-

Discounted

Discountfactor (a.o. based on consumer mortgage

cash flow

rates, risk free interest rate), prepayments

Discounted
cash flow

Deposits with
financial institutions
Policy loans

Discounted
cash flow
Discounted
cash flow

Liabilities
Savings deposits

8.814

8.962

-

-

8.962

229

230

-

-

230

Discounted
cash flow

Investment contracts

Discounted
cash flow

The description of Aegon Nederland’s methods of determining fair value and the valuation techniques are described on the following pages.

Page 182 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

40.1.1.

Shares

When available, Aegon Nederland uses quoted market prices in active markets to determine the
fair value of its investments in shares. Fair values for unquoted shares are estimated using
observations of the price/earnings or price/cash flow ratios of quoted companies considered
comparable to the companies being valued. Valuations are adjusted to account for companyspecific issues and the lack of liquidity inherent in an unquoted investment. Adjustments for lack
of liquidity are generally based on available market evidence. In addition, a variety of other factors
are reviewed by management, including but not limited to, current operating performance, changes
in market outlook and the third-party financing environment. Also for unquoted shares the net
asset value may be considered the best approximation to the fair value.
Net asset value is the value of an entity's assets minus the value of its liabilities and may be the
same as the book value or the equity value of the entity.

40.1.2.

Real estate funds, private equity funds and hedge funds

The fair values of investments held in non-quoted investment funds are determined by
management after taking into consideration information provided by the fund managers. Aegon
Nederland reviews the valuations each month and performs analytical procedures and trending
analysis to ensure the fair values are appropriate.

40.1.3.

Debt securities

The fair values of debt securities are determined by management after taking into consideration
several sources of data. When available, Aegon Nederland uses quoted market prices in active
markets to determine the fair value of its debt securities. As stated previously, Aegon Nederland’s
valuation policy utilizes a pricing hierarchy which dictates that publicly available prices are initially
sought from indices and third party pricing services. In the event that pricing is not available from
these sources, those securities are submitted to brokers to obtain quotes. The majority of brokers’
quotes are non-binding. As part of the pricing process, Aegon Nederland assesses the
appropriateness of each quote (i.e., as to whether the quote is based on observable market
transactions or not) to determine the most appropriate estimate of fair value. Lastly, securities are
priced using internal cash flow modelling techniques. These valuation methodologies commonly
use the following inputs: reported trades, bids, offers, issuer spreads, benchmark yields, estimated
prepayment speeds, and/or estimated cash flows.
To understand the valuation methodologies used by third-party pricing services Aegon Nederland
reviews and monitors the applicable methodology documents of the third-party pricing services.
Any changes to their methodologies are noted and reviewed for reasonableness. In addition, Aegon
Nederland performs in-depth reviews of prices received from third-party pricing services on a
sample basis. The objective for such reviews is to demonstrate that Aegon Nederland can
corroborate detailed information such as assumptions, inputs and methodologies used in pricing
individual securities against documented pricing methodologies. Only third-party pricing services
and brokers with a substantial presence in the market and with appropriate experience and
expertise are used.
Third-party pricing services will often determine prices using recently reported trades for identical
or similar securities. The third-party pricing service makes adjustments for the elapsed time from
the trade date to the balance sheet date to take into account available market information. Lacking
recently reported trades, third-party pricing services and brokers will use modelling techniques to
determine a security price where expected future cash flows are developed based on the
performance of the underlying collateral and discounted using an estimated market rate.

Page 183 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Periodically, Aegon Nederland performs an analysis of the inputs obtained from third-party pricing
services and brokers to ensure that the inputs are reasonable and produce a reasonable estimate
of fair value. The asset specialists and investment valuation specialists consider both qualitative
and quantitative factors as part of this analysis. Several examples of analytical procedures
performed include, but are not limited to, recent transactional activity for similar debt securities,
review of pricing statistics and trends and consideration of recent relevant market events. Other
controls and procedures over pricing received from indices, third-party pricing services, or brokers
include validation checks such as exception reports which highlight significant price changes, stale
prices or non-priced securities. Additionally Aegon Nederland performs back testing on a sample
basis. Back testing involves selecting a sample of securities trades and comparing the prices in
those transactions to prices used for financial reporting. Significant variances between the price
used for financial reporting and the transaction price are investigated to explain the cause of the
difference.
Credit ratings are also an important consideration in the valuation of securities and are included in
the internal process for determining the view of Aegon Nederland of the risk associated with each
security. However, Aegon Nederland does not rely solely on external credit ratings and there is an
internal process, based on market observable inputs, for determining Aegon Nederland’s view of
the risks associated with each security.
Aegon Nederland’s portfolio of private placement securities (held at fair value under the
classification of available-for-sale or fair value through profit or loss) is valued using a matrix
pricing methodology. The pricing matrix is obtained from a third-party service provider and
indicates current spreads for securities based on weighted average life, credit rating, and industry
sector. Each month, Aegon Nederland’s asset specialists review the matrix to ensure the spreads
are reasonable by comparing them to observed spreads for similar bonds traded in the market.
Other inputs to the valuation include coupon rate, the current interest rate curve used for
discounting and a liquidity premium to account for the illiquid nature of these securities. The
liquidity premiums are determined based upon the pricing of recent transactions in the private
placements market; comparing the value of the privately offered security to a similar public
security. The impact of the liquidity premium for private placement securities to the overall
valuation is insignificant.
Aegon Nederland’s portfolio of debt securities can be subdivided in Sovereign debt, Residential
mortgage-backed securities (RMBS), Commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS), Asset
backed securities (ABS), and Corporate bonds. Below relevant details in the valuation methodology
for these specific types of debt securities are described.
Sovereign debt
When available, Aegon Nederland uses quoted market prices in active markets to determine the
fair value of its sovereign debt investments. When Aegon Nederland cannot make use of quoted
market prices, market prices from indices or quotes from third-party pricing services or brokers
are used.
Residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS), commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS)
and asset-backed securities (ABS)
Valuations of RMBS, CMBS and ABS are monitored and reviewed on a monthly basis. Valuations
per asset type are based on a pricing hierarchy which uses a waterfall approach that starts with
market prices from indices and follows with making use of third-party pricing services or brokers.
The pricing hierarchy is dependent on the possibilities of corroboration of the market prices. If no
market prices are available Aegon Nederland uses internal models to determine fair value.
Significant inputs included in the internal models are generally determined based on relative value
analysis, which incorporate comparisons to instruments with similar collateral and risk profiles.
Market standard models may be used to model the specific collateral composition and cash flow
structure of each transaction. The most significant unobservable input is liquidity premium which
is embedded in the discount rate.
Page 184 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Corporate bonds
Valuations of corporate bonds are monitored and reviewed on a monthly basis. The pricing
hierarchy is dependent on the possibility of corroboration of market prices when available. If no
market prices are available, valuations are determined by a discounted cash flow methodology
using an internally calculated yield. The yield is comprised of a credit spread over a given
benchmark. In all cases the benchmark is an observable input. The credit spread contains both
observable and unobservable inputs. Aegon Nederland starts by taking an observable credit spread
from a similar bond of the given issuer, and then adjusts this spread based on unobservable inputs.
These unobservable inputs may include subordination, liquidity and maturity differences.
Corroboration
On a quarterly basis level classifications are assigned to all securities. Those securities that have
been priced by non-binding broker quotes are classified level II/III at first instance and are
corroborated in order to assign the proper level. Aegon Nederland compares the received quote
against all available other evidence. If differences between the price used to measure the security
and two additional prices are within a 3% difference range a level II is assigned, otherwise the
security is classified as being level III. If quotes were not to be corroborated and did not seem to
reflect a fair value, measures are taken to get a more reliable valuation; these securities always
classify as level III.

40.1.4.

Mortgage loans, policy loans and private loans

For private loans, fixed interest mortgage loans and other loans originated by Aegon Nederland,
the fair value used for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting expected future cash flows
using a current market rate applicable to financial instruments with similar yield and maturity
characteristics. For fixed interest mortgage loans, the market rate is adjusted for expenses,
prepayment rates, lapse assumptions (unobservable inputs), liquidity and credit risk (market
observable inputs). An increase in expense spread, prepayment rates and/or prepayment
assumptions, would decrease the fair value of the mortgage loan portfolio. The fair value of floating
interest rate mortgage loans, policy loans and private placements used for disclosure purposes is
assumed to be approximated by their carrying amount, adjusted for changes in credit risk. Credit
risk adjustments are based on market observable credit spreads if available, or management’s
estimate if not market observable.

40.1.5.

Real estate

Valuations of both investments in real estate and real estate held for own use are conducted in full
by independent external appraisers at least every three years and reviewed at least once a year
by qualified internal appraisers to ensure the value correctly reflects the fair value at the balance
sheet date. Appraisals are different for each specific local market, but are based on market
guidelines such as International Valuation Standards, Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal
Practice or guidelines issued by the Investment Property Databank. Valuations are mostly based
on active market prices, adjusted for any difference in the nature, location or condition of the
specific property. If such information is not available, other valuation methods are applied,
considering the value that the property’s net earning power will support, the value indicated by
recent sales of comparable properties and the current cost of reproducing or replacing the property.
Discount rates used in the valuation of real estate reflect the risk embedded in the projected cash
flows for the asset being valued. Capitalization rates represent the income rate for a real estate
property that reflects the relationship between a single year’s net operating income expectancy
and the total property price or value. For property held for own use, appraisers consider the present
value of the future rental income cash flows that could be achieved had the real estate been let
out.

Page 185 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

40.1.6.
Money market and other short-term investment and deposits with
financial institutions
The fair value of assets maturing within a year is assumed to be approximated by their carrying
amount adjusted for credit risk where appropriate. Credit risk adjustments are based on market
observable credit spreads if available, or management’s estimate if not market observable.

40.1.7.

Derivatives

Where quoted market prices are not available, other valuation techniques, such as option pricing
or stochastic modelling, are applied. The valuation techniques incorporate all factors that a typical
market participant would consider and are based on observable market data when available. Models
are validated before they are used and calibrated to ensure that outputs reflect actual experience
and comparable market prices.
Fair values for exchange-traded derivatives, principally futures and certain options, are based on
quoted market prices in active markets. Fair values for over-the-counter (OTC) derivative financial
instruments represent amounts estimated to be received from or paid to a third party in settlement
of these instruments. These derivatives are valued using pricing models based on the net present
value of estimated future cash flows, directly observed prices from exchange-traded derivatives,
other OTC trades, or external pricing services. Most valuations are derived from swap and volatility
matrices, which are constructed for applicable indices and currencies using current market data
from many industry standard sources. Option pricing is based on industry standard valuation
models and current market levels, where applicable. The pricing of complex or illiquid instruments
is based on internal models or an independent third party. For long-dated illiquid contracts,
extrapolation methods are applied to observed market data in order to estimate inputs and
assumptions that are not directly observable. To value OTC derivatives, management uses
observed market information, other trades in the market and dealer prices.
Aegon Nederland normally mitigates counterparty credit risk in derivative contracts by entering
into collateral agreements where practical and in ISDA7 master netting agreements to offset credit
risk exposure. In the event no collateral is held by Aegon Nederland or the counterparty, the fair
value of derivatives is adjusted for credit risk based on market observable spreads. Changes in the
fair value of derivatives attributable to changes in counterparty credit risk were not significant.
Aegon Nederland’s valuation of its euro-denominated derivatives positions in the Netherlands is
based on the Overnight Index Swap curve.
Some over-the-counter derivatives are so-called longevity derivatives. The pay-out of longevity
derivatives is linked to publicly available mortality tables. The derivatives are measured using the
present value of the best estimate of expected pay-outs of the derivative plus a risk margin. The
best estimate of expected pay-outs is determined using best estimate of mortality developments.
Aegon Nederland determined the risk margin by stressing the best estimate mortality
developments to quantify the risk and applying a cost-of-capital methodology. Depending on the
duration of the longevity swaps either the projected mortality development or discount rate are
the most significant unobservable inputs.

7International

Swaps and Derivatives Associations
Page 186 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

40.1.8.

Embedded derivatives in insurance contracts including guarantees

All bifurcated guarantees for minimum benefits in insurance contracts are carried at fair value.
These relate mainly to minimum interest guarantees on insurance products.
Since the price of these guarantees is not quoted in any financial market, the fair values of these
guarantees are based on discounted cash flows calculated as the present value of future expected
payments to policyholders less the present value of assessed rider fees attributable to the
guarantees. Given the complexity and long-term nature of these guarantees which are unlike
instruments available in financial markets, their fair values are determined by using stochastic
models under a variety of market return scenarios. A variety of factors are considered including
own credit spread, expected market rates of return, equity and interest rate volatility, correlations
of market returns, discount rates and actuarial assumptions. The most significant unobservable
factor is own credit spread. The own credit spread used in the valuations of embedded derivatives
in insurance contracts is 0.20% for the year-ended (2016: 0.40%).
Aegon extrapolates yield curves beyond market observable maturities. The discount rates converge
linearly in 10 years to an Ultimate Forward Rate of 4.25% from the last liquid point. The uniform
last liquid point for all Aegon’s major currencies (EUR, USD and GBP) is set at 30 years.
The expected returns are based on risk-free rates. Aegon Nederland added a premium to reflect
the credit spread as required. The credit spread is set by using the credit default swap spreads of
a reference portfolio of life insurance companies (including Aegon), adjusted to reflect the
subordination of senior debt holders at the holding company level to the position of policyholders
at the operating company level (who have priority in payments to other creditors).
Since many of the assumptions are unobservable and are considered to be significant inputs to the
liability valuation, the liability included in future policy benefits has been reflected within Level III
of the fair value hierarchy. See also note 19 ‘Guarantees’.

40.1.9.

Embedded derivatives in bank products

Some bifurcated derivatives embedded in bank products are not quoted in an active financial
market. Valuation techniques are used to determine the fair values of these derivatives. Given the
dynamic and complex nature of the cash flows relating to these derivatives, their fair values are
often determined by using stochastic techniques under a variety of market return scenarios. A
variety of factors are considered, including expected market prices and rates of return, equity and
interest rate volatility, credit risk, correlations of market returns, discount rates and actuarial
assumptions.
The expected returns are based on risk-free interest rates, such as the London Inter-Bank Offered
Rate (LIBOR) yield curve or the current rates on Dutch government bonds. Market volatility
assumptions for each underlying index are based on observed market implied volatility data and/or
observed market performance. As required for discounting cash flows, Aegon Nederland applies a
credit spread to the risk-free interest rate when computing the guarantee provisions. This own
credit spread is derived from the spread used in the market for credit default swaps in a reference
portfolio of European life insurers (including Aegon N.V.).

Page 187 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

40.1.10.

Savings deposits and investment contracts

Savings deposits and investment contracts issued by Aegon Nederland are either carried at fair
value (if they are designated as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) or amortized
cost (with fair value being disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements).
Similar to embedded derivatives in insurance contracts, certain investment products are not quoted
in active markets and their fair values are determined by using valuation techniques. Because of
the dynamic and complex nature of these cash flows, stochastic or similar techniques under a
variety of market return scenarios are often used. A variety of factors are considered, including
expected market rates of return, market volatility, correlations of market returns, discount rates
and actuarial assumptions.
The expected returns are based on risk-free rates, such as the current London Interbank Offered
Rate (LIBOR) swap rates and associated forward rates, the overnight index swap curve or the current
rates on local government bonds. Market volatility assumptions for each underlying index are based
on observed market implied volatility data and/or observed market performance. Correlations of
market returns for various underlying indices are based on observed market returns and their interrelationships over a number of years preceding the valuation date. Current risk-free spot rates are
used to determine the present value of expected future cash flows produced in the stochastic
projection process.
Assumptions on customer behavior, such as lapses, included in the models are derived in the same
way as the assumptions used to measure insurance liabilities.

40.1.11.

Other borrowings

Other borrowings are either carried at fair value (if they are designated as financial liabilities at fair
value through profit or loss) or amortized cost (with fair value being disclosed in the notes to the
consolidated financial statements). For the determination of the fair value of the borrowings, the
level hierarchy as described by IFRS is used. The preferred method of obtaining the fair value of
the fair value option bonds is the quoted price (Level I). In case markets are less liquid or the
quoted prices are not available, an internal model is used, using parameters which are market
observable (Level II). Aegon Nederland uses a discounted cash flow method including yield curves
such as deposit rates, floating rate and 3-month swap rates. In addition Aegon Nederland includes
the own credit spread based on Aegon’s credit default swap curve.

Page 188 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Summary of financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value
through profit or loss
The table that follows summarizes the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities
that are classified as at fair value through profit or loss, with appropriate distinction between those
financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading and those that, upon initial recognition, were
designated as at fair value through profit or loss.

2017
Trading

2016

Designated

Trading

Designated

Investments for general account

3

2.816

1

1.907

Investments for account of policyholders

-

23.574

-

25.292

Derivatives with positive values

4.141

36

5.367

17

Total financial assets at FVTPL

4.144

26.426

5.367

27.216

2017
Trading

2016

Designated

Trading

Designated

Investment contracts

-

219

-

229

Investment contracts for account of

-

133

-

466
5.542

policyholders
Liabilities for guarantees

-

4.719

-

Derivatives with negative values

3.784

1.856

4.264

2.016

Total financial liabilities at FVTPL

3.784

6.927

4.264

8.253

Gains and losses recognized in the income statement on financial assets and financial liabilities
classified as at fair value through profit or loss can be summarized as follows:

2017
Trading
Net gains and losses

-1.038

2016

Designated
690

Trading
776

Designated
1.213

Investments for general account
Aegon Nederland manages certain portfolios on a total return basis which have been designated at
fair value through profit or loss. This includes portfolios of investments in limited partnerships and
limited liability companies (primarily hedge funds) for which the performance is assessed internally
on a total return basis.

Page 189 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Investments for general account backing insurance and investment liabilities that are carried at
fair value with changes in the fair value recognized in the income statement, are designated at fair
value through profit or loss. Aegon Nederland elected to designate these investments at fair value
through profit or loss, as classification of these financial assets as available-for-sale would result
in accumulation of unrealized gains and losses in a revaluation reserve within equity whilst changes
to the liability would be reflected in net income (accounting mismatch).
Investments for account of policyholders
Investments held for account of policyholders comprise assets that are linked to various insurance
and investment contracts for which the financial risks are borne by the customer. Under the
accounting policies of Aegon Nederland these insurance and investment liabilities are measured at
the fair value of the linked assets with changes in the fair value recognized in the income statement.
To avoid an accounting mismatch the linked assets have been designated as at fair value through
profit or loss.
In addition, the investments for account of policyholders include with ‘profit assets’, where an
insurer manages these assets together with related liabilities on a fair value basis in accordance
with a documented policy of asset and liability management. In accordance with Aegon Nederland’s
accounting policies, these assets have been designated as at fair value through profit or loss.
Investment contracts for account of policyholders
With the exception of the financial liabilities with discretionary participating features that are not
subject to the classification and measurement requirements for financial instruments, all
investment contracts for account of policyholders that are carried at fair value or at the fair value
of the linked assets are included in the table above.
Derivatives
With the exception of derivatives designated as a hedging instrument, all derivatives held for
general account and held for account of policyholders are included in the table above. No loans and
receivables were designated at fair value through profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of financial
liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss were not attributable to changes in credit
spread, with the exception of the life contingent guarantees. There are also no differences between
the carrying amounts of these financial liabilities and the contractual amounts payable at maturity
(net of surrender penalties).

41.

Commitment and contingencies
Investments contracted

In the normal course of business, Aegon Nederland has committed itself through purchase and sale
transactions of investments, mostly to be executed in the course of 2018. The amounts represent
the future outflow and inflow, respectively, of cash related to these investment transactions that
are not reflected in the statement of financial position. Mortgage loans commitments represent
undrawn mortgage loan facility provided and outstanding proposals on mortgages. The sale of
mortgage loans relates to pre-announced redemptions on mortgage loans.
As part of its strategy to generate higher yield on its investments Aegon Nederland has committed
itself, through certain subsidiaries, to invest in real estate, private loans, mortgages loans and
receivables and investment funds (included in ‘other’) in future years. Comparative amounts were
immaterial for investments with nil value in prior year.

Page 190 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Contracted purchases

2017

2016

Real estate

196

Private loans

614

-

Mortgage loans

2.993

320

Other

1.126

-

Contracted sales

2017

2016

Real estate
Mortgage loans

-

5

6

69

78

Other commitments and contingencies

Guarantees given

2017

2016

Standby letters of credit

12

29

Other guarantees

12

14

Aegon Nederland is part of the Nederlandse Herverzekeringmaatschappij voor Terrorismeschade
N.V. and consequently pays its share of the reinsurance premium and other expenses. The letters
of credit shown above relate chiefly to the guarantee issued by Aegon Nederland for its share in
the excess risk of the Nederlandse Herverzekeringmaatschappij voor Terrorismeschade N.V.
In addition to the above guarantees, guarantees have been issued for compliance with contractual
obligations such as investment mandates of investment funds. The future transfer price will be at
the fair value at the investment date.
On October 31, 2017 Aegon Nederland sold its shares in Unirobe Meeùs Groep (UMG) for EUR 295
million to Aon Groep Nederland (the buyer). Under the share purchase agreement between Aegon
Nederland and the buyer, Aegon Nederland indemnifies and holds the buyer and its group (including
UMG) harmless for and against any damage suffered or incurred which is the result of the Unit
Linked Insurances Claims until 2027 with respect to Unit Linked Policies in the portfolio of UMG
prior to 1 January 2017. The aggregate liability for Aegon Nederland is maximized at an amount
equal to the purchase price. At this time, due to the nature and the type of Unit Linked Insurance
Claims, Aegon Nederland in unable to quantify a range or the timing of the financial impact, if any.
Therefore no contingent liability has been recognized.

Off-balance sheet assets
As part of its core activities, Aegon Nederland enters into transactions and maintains relationships
with institutional and private customers for a wide range of financial services. As consideration for
these services, Aegon Nederland receives fees related to the value of the assets, the investment
result or the risk run in connection with the contract.

Page 191 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Legal and arbitrary proceedings, regulatory proceedings and actions
Aegon Nederland is involved in litigation in the ordinary course of business, including litigation
where compensatory or punitive damages and mass or class relief are sought. Current and former
customers, both institutional as well as individual, and groups representing customers, initiate
litigation. Also, certain groups encourage others to bring lawsuits in respect of products.
Aegon Nederland has established litigation policies to deal with the claims, defending when the
claim is without merit and seeking to settle in certain circumstances. There can be no assurances
that Aegon Nederland will be able to resolve existing litigation in the manner it expects or that
existing or future litigation will not result in unexpected liability.
Certain of the products sold are complex and involve significant investment risks that may be
passed on to Aegon Nederland´s customers. Aegon Nederland has, from time to time, received
claims from certain current and former customers, and groups representing customers, in respect
of certain products. Aegon Nederland has in the past agreed to make payments, in some cases
substantial, or adjustments to policy terms to settle those claims or disputes as we believed
appropriate.
In addition, the insurance industry has routinely been the subject of litigation, investigations,
regulatory activity and challenges by various governmental and enforcement authorities and
policyholder advocate groups concerning wide-ranging subjects such as transparency of disclosure
- issues and the charges included in products, employment or third party relationships, adequacy
of internal operational controls and processes, environmental matters, anti-competition, privacy,
information security and intellectual property infringement.
In the normal course of business, reviews of processes and procedures are undertaken to ensure
that customers have been treated fairly, and to respond to matters raised by policyholders and
their representatives. There is a risk that Aegon Nederland is not able to resolve some or all such
matters in the manner that it expects. In certain instances, Aegon Nederland subsidiaries modified
business practices in response to such inquiries or the findings thereof. Regulators may seek fines
or other monetary penalties or changes in the way Aegon Nederland conducts its business.
Aegon Nederland has defended and will continue to defend itself vigorously when Aegon Nederland
believes claims are without merit. Aegon Nederland has also sought and intends to continue to
seek to settle certain claims, including via policy modifications, in appropriate circumstances. Aegon
Nederland refers to the settlement Aegon Nederland reached in 2009 with Stichting Verliespolis
and Stichting Woekerpolisclaim in the Netherlands, two major customer interest groups. In 2012,
Aegon Nederland accelerated certain product improvements that reduce future costs and that
increase policy value for its customers with unit-linked insurance policies. With these measures,
Aegon Nederland committed to the 'best of class' principles of the Dutch Ministry of Finance for
certain existing unit-linked products. These principles were the result of an industry-wide review
by the Ministry of the various agreements reached between individual insurance companies and
customer interest groups in relation to unit-linked insurance policies. The Ministry made a strong
appeal to all industry participants to apply its principles.
In addition, Aegon Nederland decided to reduce future policy costs for the large majority of its unitlinked portfolio. This decision was expected to decrease income before tax over the remaining
duration of the policies.

Page 192 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

While parties such as the Ombudsman Financiële Dienstverlening (the Netherlands financial
services industry ombudsman) supported the arrangements reached with customer interest
groups, the public debate over the adequacy generally of these and other arrangements, as well
as discussions in the Dutch Parliament, continue and may lead to re-examination and adjustment
of the settlements made. It is not yet possible to determine the direction or outcome of these
matters, including what actions, if any, Aegon Nederland may take in response thereto, due to
commercial necessity or future rulings or, for example, at the instigation of regulatory authorities,
or the impact that any such actions may have on Aegon Nederland´s business, results of operations
and financial position.
In addition, the Netherlands AFM issued a request to the insurance industry to contact certain
customers to determine whether unit-linked products sold in the past, actually perform as originally
contemplated. Aegon Nederland has actively responded to that request by contacting customers
to assess the performance of these products in the context of the then current objectives of that
customer and to solicit an informed decision by those customers whether or not to continue with,
make changes to or terminate these products ('active Ren van lantern'). This process is actively
monitored by the AFM, including the percentage of customers contacted. Sanctions may be
imposed if the AFM determines that an insurer did not conduct this process adequately or timely.
The Dutch Parliament introduced specific legislation in this respect and closely monitors the
process. Any changes in legislation, regulatory requirements or perceptions of commercial
necessity may have a materially adverse effect on Aegon Nederland's businesses, results of
operations and financial condition.
In general, individual customers as well as policyholder advocate groups and their representatives,
continue to focus on the level of fees and other charges included in products sold by the insurance
industry (including Aegon Nederland), as well as the transparency of disclosure regarding such fees
and charges and other product features and risks.
In April 2015, the European Court of Justice ruled on preliminary questions raised in a court case
pending before the District Court in Rotterdam against another insurance company in the
Netherlands. The main preliminary question considered by the European Court of Justice was
whether European law permits the application of information requirements based on general
principles of Dutch law that potentially extend beyond information requirements as explicitly
prescribed by local laws and regulations in force at the time the policy was written. The European
Court ruled that member states may impose on insurers’ obligations of transparency of disclosure
in addition to those existing under European law, provided that those additional obligations are
sufficiently clear and concrete as well as known to an insurer in advance. The European Court has
left it to the national court to decide in specific cases whether the obligations under Dutch law meet
those principles. It is possible that a judgment, although it would address a question of legal
principle only and would be rendered in a case against another insurer, may ultimately be used by
plaintiffs against Aegon Nederland or to support potential claims against Aegon Nederland. Future
claims based on emerging legal theories could have a material adverse effect on Aegon Nederland’s
businesses, results of operations and financial condition.
In recent years claims regarding unit-linked policies have also been handled by the
Klachteninstituut Financiële Dienstverlening (‘KIFID’). KIFID is an independent body that offers an
alternative forum for customers to file complaints or claims regarding financial services. Its
decisions may be appealed to the courts. In 2017 the Appeal Committee of KIFID rendered
decisions against other insurers. There are claims pending with KIFID filed by customers over
Aegon Nederland’s products that arguably include similar allegations. At this time the decisions of
KIFID and courts are far from homogenous. If KIFID were to finally decide unfavorably, there can
be no assurances that ultimately the aggregate exposure to Aegon of such adverse decisions would
not have a material adverse effect on Aegon’s results of operations or financial position if the
principles underlying any such decision were to be applied also to Aegon products.

Page 193 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Proceedings in which Aegon Nederland is involved
In September 2014, consumer interest group Vereniging Woekerpolis.nl filed a claim against Aegon
in court. The claim related to a range of unit-linked products that Aegon sold in the past, including
products over which Aegon was involved in litigation in the past, like the KoersPlan product. While
the number of products to which the claim may relate was reduced by the court in its interlocutory
ruling of October 28, 2016, it still concerns the majority of Aegon’s unit-linked portfolio. The claim
challenges a variety of elements of these products, on multiple legal grounds, including allegations
made in earlier court cases. In June 2017 (and revised in December 2017), the court issued its
verdict which upheld the principle that disclosures must be evaluated according to the standards
at the time when the relevant products were placed in-force. Most of the claims of Vereniging
Woekerpolis.nl were dismissed under this standard, although the court found that Aegon did not
adequately disclose certain charges on a limited set of policies. The court did not give a judgement
about the reasonableness of the cost levels and whether the previous compensation arrangements
provide sufficient compensation. This court decision has been appealed by both parties. Aegon
expects the claims and litigation on unit-linked products to continue for the foreseeable future.
Developments in similar cases against other Dutch insurers currently before regulators, KIFID and
courts may also affect Aegon. These matters will be defended vigorously; however, at this time,
due to the nature and the type of claims, it is not practicable for Aegon to quantify a range or
maximum liability or the timing of the financial impact, if any. There can be no assurance that such
claims may not have a material adverse effect on Aegon’s results of operations or financial position.
Lawsuits have also been brought against providers of securities leasing products (‘aandelenlease
producten’). Although sales of securities leasing products ended more than a decade ago, litigation
relating to these products has resurfaced. In 2016, the Dutch Supreme Court ruled on a case
involving a securities leasing product sold by one of Aegon’s competitors. It decided that the
financial institution was liable if a broker (‘remisier’) that advised on the sale of the institution’s
products, was not properly licensed. In July 2016, consumer interest group Platform Aandelenlease
filed a claim against Aegon Bank regarding securities leasing product Sprintplan. Allegations
include, among other things, a lack of a proper license of the brokers involved. In October 2017,
the district court of The Hague ruled the case inadmissible and found in favor of Aegon that the
Sprintplan liability had been conclusively determined in earlier proceedings and there were no
grounds to hold further class action proceedings. The plaintiff appealed. The case is now pending
at the court of appeal of The Hague. There is a long history of litigation regarding security leasing
products – including two prior class actions regarding Sprintplan –, it cannot be excluded that these
proceedings might have an adverse effect on Aegon’s results of operations or financial position.

Capital commitments

2017
Share of contingent liabilities incurred in relation to interests in joint

2016
39

40

ventures

The contingent liabilities above not shown in the statement of financial position relate to investment
obligations entered into by Aegon Nederland (for its share of approximately 50%) for real estate
development project of Amvest (in real estate development projects).
In addition, Amvest has unconditional obligations and planned total investments in real estate of
EUR 1,248 million at year-end 2017 (2016: EUR 799 million). Of this, an amount of EUR 189 million
is considered to be an unconditional obligation (2016: EUR 133 million). There are also contingent
payment obligations for the acquisition of lands at year-end 2017 for a total amount of EUR 16
million (2016: EUR 16 million). The timing of this contingent consideration is uncertain and will in
particular be dependent on the status of realization of the various projects.
Page 194 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Future lease payments
The future non-cancellable leases relate to office space lease and car lease from third parties.
These are specified in the table below.

2017
Not later than 1 year
Between 1 and 5 years
Later than 5 years

42.

2016
4

7

12

17

14

18

30

42

Transfers of financial assets

Transfers of financial assets occur when Aegon Nederland transfers contractual rights to receive
cash flows of financial assets or when Aegon Nederland retains the contractual rights to receive
the cash flows of the transferred financial asset, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the
cash flows to one or more recipients in that arrangement.
In the normal course of business Aegon Nederland is involved among others in the following
transactions:
1. Transferred financial assets that are not derecognized in their entirety:
a. Securities lending; whereby Aegon Nederland legally (but not economically)
transfers assets and receives cash and non-cash collateral. The transferred assets
are not derecognized. The obligation to repay the cash collateral is recognized as
a liability. The non-cash collateral is not recognized on the balance sheet, and
b. Repurchase activities; whereby Aegon Nederland receives cash for the transferred
assets. The financial assets are legally (but not economically) transferred, but are
not derecognized. The obligation to repay the cash received is recognized as a
liability.
2. Transferred financial assets that are derecognized in their entirety and Aegon Nederland
does not have a continuing involvement (normal sale);
3. Transferred financial assets that are derecognized in their entirety, but where Aegon
Nederland has a continuing involvement:
a. Securitizations whereby mortgage loans are transferred to a securitization vehicle
which is not part of the Group and where Aegon Nederland has a continuing
involvement in the transferred assets.
4. Collateral accepted in the case of securities lending, reverse repurchase agreement and
derivative transactions;
5. Collateral pledged in the case of (contingent) liabilities, repurchase agreements, securities
borrowing and derivative transactions.
The following disclosures provide details for transferred financial assets that are not derecognized
in their entirety, transferred financial asset that are derecognized in their entirety, but where Aegon
Nederland has a continuing involvement and assets accepted and pledged as collateral.

Page 195 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Transferred financial assets that have not been derecognized in
their entirety
The following table reflects the carrying amount of financial assets that have been transferred to
another party in such a way that part or all of the transferred financial assets do not qualify for
derecognition. Furthermore, it reflects the carrying amounts of the associated liabilities.

2017

AFS financial assets

Financial assets at FVTPL

Debt securities

Investments for account of policyholders

Carrying amount of assets
Carrying amount of

611

1.738

-612

-232

-

-1.550

associated liabilities (on
balance)
Carrying amount of
associated liabilities (off
balance)
2016

AFS financial assets

Financial assets at FVTPL

Debt securities

Investments for account of policyholders

Carrying amount of assets
Carrying amount of

734

1.047

-734

-93

-

-991

associated liabilities (on
balance)
Carrying amount of
associated liabilities (off
balance)

Securities lending and repurchase activities
The table above includes financial assets that have been transferred to another party under
securities lending and repurchase activities.
Aegon Nederland retains substantially all risks and rewards of those transferred assets, this
includes credit risk, settlement risk, country risk and market risk. The assets are transferred in
return for cash collateral or other financial assets. Non-cash collateral is not recognized in the
statement of financial position. Cash collateral is recorded on the statement of financial position as
an asset and an offsetting liability is established for the same amount as Aegon Nederland is
obligated to return this amount upon termination of the lending arrangement. Cash collateral is
usually invested in pre-designated high quality investments. The sum of cash and non-cash
collateral is typically greater than the market value of the related securities lend.

Page 196 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

When transferring non-cash financial assets to another party under security lending and repurchase
activities, the counterparty has the right to sell or re-pledge the full amount.
Aegon Nederland can receive collateral related to derivative transactions that it enters into. The
credit support agreement will normally dictate the threshold over which collateral needs to be
pledged by Aegon Nederland or its counterparty. Transactions requiring Aegon Nederland or its
counterparty to post collateral are typically the result of over-the-counter derivative trades,
comprised mostly of interest rate swaps, currency swaps and credit swaps. Refer to the credit risk
section in note 4.4.4 ‘Credit risk’ for details on collateral received for derivative transactions.
Assets accepted
Aegon Nederland receives collateral related to securities lending, reverse repurchase activities and
derivative transactions. Non-cash collateral is not recognized in the statement of financial position.
To the extent that cash is paid for reverse repurchase agreements, a receivable is recognized for
the corresponding amount.
The following table analysis the fair value of the assets received in relation to securities lending
and reverse repurchase activities. These activities are conducted under terms that are usual and
customary to standard securities lending activities, as well as requirements determined by
exchanges where the bank acts as intermediary.

Securities lending
Carrying amount of transferred financial assets
Fair value of cash collateral received
Fair value of non-cash collateral received
Net exposure
Non-cash collateral that can be sold or repledged in the

2017
1.738

2016
1.047

-232

-93

-1.550

-991

-45

-37

1.550

991

absence of default

Page 197 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Reverse repurchase agreements
Cash paid for reverse repurchase agreements
Fair value of non-cash collateral received

2017
4.166

3.288

-4.166

-3.288

-

-

4.166

3.288

-

-

Net exposure
Non-cash collateral that can be sold or repledged in the

2016

absence of default
Non-cash collateral that has been sold or transferred

Transferred financial assets that are derecognized in their entirety,
but where Aegon Nederland has continuing involvement
Aegon Nederland has no transferred financial assets that are derecognized in their entirety, but
where it has continuing involvement as per year-end 2017 and 2016.

Assets pledged
Aegon Nederland pledges assets that are on its statement of financial position in securities
borrowing transactions, in repurchase transactions and against borrowings. In addition, in order to
trade derivatives on the various exchanges, Aegon Nederland posts margin as collateral. These
transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard borrowing,
derivative and securities borrowing activities, as well as requirements determined by exchanges
where a bank acts as intermediary.
Non-cash financial assets that are borrowed or purchased under agreement to resell are not
recognized in the statement of financial position. To the extent that cash collateral is paid, a
receivable is recognized for the corresponding amount. If other non-cash financial assets are given
as collateral, these are not derecognized.
The following table analyzes the carrying amount of collateral pledged and the corresponding
amounts.

Assets pledged for repurchase agreements
Cash received
Pledged non-cash collateral
Net exposure

2017

2016

612

734

-612

-734

-

-

As part of Aegon Nederland’s funding program the mortgages related to the securitizations and
warehouses have been pledged as security for notes and loans issued (refer to note 23 ‘borrowings
and group loans’) and for subsidiary Aegon Bank mortgages are pledged for notes related to the
Conditional Pass Through Covered Bond program. In addition, in order to trade derivatives on the
various exchanges, Aegon Nederland posts margin as collateral.

Page 198 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

43.

Offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and
similar arrangements

The table below provides details relating to the effect or potential effect of netting arrangements,
including rights to offset associated with the entity's recognized financial assets and recognized
financial liabilities.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset in the statement of financial position when Aegon
Nederland has a legally enforceable right to offset and has the intention to settle the asset and
liability on a net basis, or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Aegon Nederland mitigates credit risk in derivative contracts by entering into collateral agreements,
where practical, and in ISDA master netting agreements for each of the legal entities of Aegon
Nederland to facilitate Aegon Nederland’s right to offset credit risk exposure. The credit support
agreement will normally dictate the threshold over which collateral needs to be pledged by Aegon
Nederland or its counterparty. Transactions requiring Aegon Nederland or its counterparty to post
collateral are typically the result of over-the-counter derivative trades, comprised mostly of interest
rate swaps, currency swaps and credit swaps. These transactions are conducted under terms that
are usual and customary to standard borrowing, derivative, securities lending and securities
borrowing activities, as well as requirements determined by exchanges where the bank acts as
intermediary.

Page 199 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements

2017

Related amounts not set off in the

Net

statements of financial position

amount

Gross amounts of

Gross amounts of recognized financial

Net amounts of financial assets

Financial

Collateral received

recognized financial

liabilities set off in the statement of

presented in the statement of

instruments

(excluding surplus

assets

financial position

financial position

collateral)

Derivatives

4.177

-

4.177

4.090

87

-

At

4.177

-

4.177

4.090

87

-

December
31
2016

Related amounts not set off in the

Net

statements of financial position

amount

Gross amounts of

Gross amounts of recognized financial

Net amounts of financial assets

Financial

Collateral received

recognized financial

liabilities set off in the statement of

presented in the statement of

instruments

(excluding surplus

assets

financial position

financial position

collateral)

Derivatives

5.384

-

5.384

4.721

573

89

At

5.384

-

5.384

4.721

573

89

December
31

Page 200 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements

2017

Related amounts not set off in the

Net

statements of financial position

amount

Gross amounts of

Gross amounts of recognized financial

Net amounts of financial liabilities

Financial

Collateral pledged

recognized financial

assets set off in the statement of

presented in the statement of

instruments

(excluding surplus

liabilities

financial position

financial position

collateral)

Derivatives

4.090

-

4.090

4.090

-

-

At

4.090

-

4.090

4.090

-

-

December
31
2016

Related amounts not set off in the

Net

statements of financial position

amount

Gross amounts of

Gross amounts of recognized financial

Net amounts of financial liabilities

Financial

Collateral pledged

recognized financial

assets set off in the statement of

presented in the statement of

instruments

(excluding surplus

liabilities

financial position

financial position

collateral)

Derivatives

4.721

-

4.721

4.721

-

-

At

4.721

-

4.721

4.721

-

-

December
31

Page 201 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

44.

Group companies
Subsidiaries

The principal subsidiaries of Aegon Nederland are as follows:

Name

AEGON Administratie B.V., The

Country of

Primary business

% equity

% equity

incorporation

operation

interest

interest

2017

2016

The Netherlands

Administration

100%

100%

The Netherlands

Administration

100%

100%

Aegon Advies B.V., The Hague

The Netherlands

Broker/Dealer

100%

100%

Aegon Bank N.V., The Hague

The Netherlands

Banking

100%

100%

AEGON Bedrijfsfinanciering B.V.,

The Netherlands

Finance

0%

100%

The Netherlands

Broker/Dealer

100%

100%

The Netherlands

Investment

100%

100%

100%

100%

0%

100%

Hague
AEGON Administratieve
Dienstverlening B.V., The Hague

The Hague
AEGON Bemiddeling B.V., The
Hague
AEGON Global Investment Fund
B.V.,
AEGON Hypotheken B.V., The

Banking
The Netherlands

Hague
AEGON Infrastructure Services

Mortgages and
Credit ins

The Netherlands

ICT

The Netherlands

Holding Company

100%

100%

The Netherlands

Insurance

100%

100%

Aegon PPI B.V., The Hague

The Netherlands

Life Insurance

100%

100%

AEGON Schadeverzekering N.V.,

The Netherlands

Insurance

100%

100%

AEGON Spaarkas N.V., The Hague

The Netherlands

Insurance

100%

100%

Bagon B.V., The Hague

The Netherlands

Investment

0%

100%

Nederland B.V., The Hague
AEGON Innovation Investments
B.V., The Hague
AEGON Levensverzekering N.V.,
The Hague

The Hague

Banking
BS Loans B.V., The Hague

The Netherlands

Holding Company

100%

100%

CAPPITAL Premiepensioeninstelling

The Netherlands

Life Insurance

100%

100%

Nedasco B.V., Amersfoort

The Netherlands

Broker/Dealer

100%

100%

TKP Pensioen B.V., Groningen

The Netherlands

Pension

100%

100%

0%

100%

100%

100%

B.V., Groningen

Management
Unirobe Meeùs Groep B.V., The

The Netherlands

Holding Company

The Netherlands

Life Insurance

Hague
Van Nierop Assuradeuren N.V., The
Hague

Page 202 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Changes in group companies during the year:

On January 1, 2017 as a consequence of the legal merger between Aegon Nederland (as
acquiring company) and Aegon Bedrijfsfinanciering B.V., Aegon Infrastructure Services
Nederland and Bagon B.V. (as disappearing companies), the disappearing companies
ceased to exist.

On January 1, 2017 as a consequence of the legal merger between eyeOpen Holding (as
acquiring company) and eyeOpen Finance B.V. (as disappearing company) the
disappearing company ceased to exist.

On January 2, 2017, all the shares in the capital of eyeOpen N.V. were sold and
transferred by eyeOpen Holding N.V. to Aegon Innovation Investments B.V..

On January 3, 2017 as a consequence of the legal merger between eyeOpen (as acquiring
company) and eyeOpen Holding (as disappearing company) the disappearing company
ceased to exist.

On January 3, 2017, the Articles of Association of eyeOpen N.V. were amended, whereby
the name changed into Knab Advies & Bemiddeling N.V.

On June 27, 2017 as a consequence of the merger between Aegon Vastgoed Holding B.V.
(as acquiring company) and Aegon Woningen B.V., Aegon Living & Care Fund Participation
B.V. and Aegon Dynamic Fund the disappearing ceased to exist on June 28, 2017.

On June 27, 2017 as a consequence of the merger between Aegon Vastgoed Holding B.V.
(as acquiring company) and Aegon Core Fund Participations B.V. (as disappearing
company) the disappearing company ceased to exist on June 28, 2017.

On June 29, 2017 as a consequence of the merger between Aegon Levensverzekering (as
acquiring company) and Aegon Leven Beleggingen B.V. and Aegon Vastgoed Holding B.V.
(as disappearing companies) the disappearing companies ceased to exist on June 30, 2017.


On October 31, 2017 Aegon Nederland N.V. sold all the shares in Unirobe Meeùs Groep
B.V..

Below the composition of Aegon Nederland’s largest subsidiary Aegon Levensverzekering.

Name

Country of

Primary business

incorporation

operation

% equity

% equity

interest

interest

2017

2016

AEGON DL B.V., The Hague

The Netherlands

Investment Company

100%

0%

AEGON Leven Beleggingen B.V.,

The Netherlands

Investment Company

0%

100%

The Netherlands

Holding Company

0%

100%

AEGON, d.s.s. a.s, Bratislava

Slovakia

Pension Management

100%

100%

AEGON Vast Goed III B.V.

The Netherlands

Investment Company

100%

100%

AEGON Vast Goed IV B.V.

The Netherlands

Investment Company

100%

100%

AMVEST Home Free B.V.

The Netherlands

Investment Company

100%

100%

Vastgoedmaatschappij Inpa B.V.

The Netherlands

Investment Company

100%

100%

Optas Pensioenen N.V.,

The Netherlands

Insurance

100%

100%

United States

Investment Company

100%

100%

The Hague
AEGON Vastgoed Holding B.V.,
The Hague

Rotterdam
US PENG, INC., Wilmington

Page 203 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Changes in group companies during the year:

On May 9, 2017, Aegon DL B.V. was incorporated. Aegon Levensverzekering is the sole
shareholder.

On June 29, 2017 as a consequence of the merger between Aegon Levensverzekering (as
acquiring company) and Aegon Leven Beleggingen B.V. and Aegon Vastgoed Holding B.V.
(as disappearing companies) the disappearing companies ceased to exist on June 30, 2017.
Aegon Nederland has issued a statement of liability pursuant to Section 403 of Book 2 of the Dutch
Civil Code for the following group companies:





Aegon Administratie B.V.
Aegon Global Investment Fund B.V.
Aegon Innovation Investments B.V.
Van Nierop Assuradeuren N.V.

The list of subsidiaries and associates required by Sections 379 and 414 of Book 2 of the Dutch
Civil Code has been registered with the Trade Register in The Hague.

Investments in associates and joint ventures
Associates
The principal associates of Aegon Nederland are:

N.V. Levensverzekeringmaatschappij 'De Hoop’, The Hague (33.3%)
Auxmoney GmbH, Germany (11.9%)


Dynamic Credit Group B.V., Amsterdam (25.0%)
OB Capital Cooperatief U.A., Schiphol (95.0%);

Since 2017, Aegon Levensverzekering invests in OB Capital Cooperatief U.A. which is a
company involved in investment in litigation finance and is incorporated in the Netherlands
with principal activities based in the Netherlands, Switzerland, United Kingdom and Guernsey.
Aegon Levensverzekering has a 95% interest in OB Capital Cooperatief U.A. on 31 December
2017. Even though Aegon Levensverzekering held more than half of the voting rights, Aegon
Levensverzekering does not have control over the company because the existing contractual
agreements with other shareholders do not provide Aegon Levensverzekering with rights to
direct the daily activities of the company.
Joint ventures





AMVEST
AMVEST
AMVEST
AMVEST

Vastgoed B.V., Utrecht (50%), property management and real estate
Residential Core Fund I en II, (31.7%), real estate
Residential Dynamic Fund, (50%), real estate
Living & Care Fund (50%), real estate

AMVEST Vastgoed B.V. is the fund manager of the funds. The other major participant in the joint
venture, Stichting Pensioenfonds Zorg en Welzijn in Zeist, has equal interests and voting power in
the entities mentioned above.

Page 204 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Investments in structured entities
The following structured entities are group companies and have been consolidated. The structures
entities relate to the securitization of mortgage loans. The contractual agreements with these
entities do not include provisions in which Aegon Nederland could be required to provide financial
support in certain circumstances. Aegon Nederland has not provided, nor has intentions to provide,
financial or other support without having a contractual obligation to do so.







SAECURE 13 NHG B.V.
SAECURE 14 NHG B.V.
SAECURE 15 B.V.
Aegon Hypotheken financiering B.V.
Kigoi 2013 B.V.
Aegon conditional Pass Through Covered Bond Company B.V.

The following structured entity has been called at FORD in 2017 and is liquidated:

SAECURE 12 B.V.

45.

Related party transactions

Entities in the Aegon N.V. group carry out a range of transactions with each other. The main ones
are described below.
Aegon Nederland administers the payroll for employees working for Aegon N.V. in the Netherlands.
The total employee benefits recharged were EUR 70 million (2016: EUR 61 million). Aegon
Nederland has paid EUR 5 million to its subsidiary Aegon Levensverzekering for the rental of the
Aegon offices in The Hague (2016: EUR 5 million). In the consolidated income statement, the rental
income of Aegon Levensverzekering is recognized in note 29 ‘Investment income’ whilst the rent
paid by Aegon Nederland is included in note 35 ‘Commissions and expenses’.
At the end of the year, Aegon Nederland had a current account receivable with Aegon N.V. of
EUR 18 million (2016: payable of EUR 39 million), see note 14 ‘Other assets and receivables’. At
the end of 2017, Aegon Nederland had group loans with group companies of EUR 220 million (2016:
EUR 636 million), see note 23.2 ‘Group loans’ and note 11 ‘Borrowings and group loans’ for further
information.
Investment and derivative activities are undertaken through Aegon Investment Management B.V.
and securities custody through Aegon Custody B.V. Costs are recharged on normal commercial
terms. The recharge was EUR 45 million (2016: EUR 52 million).
In 2017, Aegon N.V. recharged Aegon Nederland EUR 30 million in overheads and program
expenses (2016: EUR 22 million). In turn, Aegon Nederland recharged these expenses to its group
companies.
Aegon N.V. charged Aegon Nederland EUR 1 million (2016: EUR 1 million) for corporate insurances
related to Director and Officers Liability and Fraud.
In January 2012, Aegon Levensverzekering entered into an indemnity swap with an external
pension fund. With this swap Aegon Levensverzekering took over the longevity risk of this pension
fund by paying benefits as long as the participants live and receive fixed payments from the
external pension fund. The longevity risk of this contract is fully reinsured by Blue Square Re, a
100% owned subsidiary of Aegon N.V. The premium income of this contract amounts to EUR 0.4
million annually and the contract has a maximum duration of 40 years. This reinsurance agreement
is unwound in 2017.
Page 205 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

In respect to a longevity transaction with Blue Square Re, a 100% subsidiary of Aegon N.V., Aegon
Levensverzekering (a subsidiary of Aegon Nederland) provided a loan to Blue Square Re of EUR 7
million at year-end 2017 (2016: debt to Blue Square Re of EUR 6 million).
In December 2013, Aegon Levensverzekering entered into a longevity reinsurance contract with
Blue Square Re. The contract reinsures a specified portfolio of insurance contracts against possible
future mortality improvements. The size of the underlying portfolio is EUR 941 million (2016: EUR
987 million). Blue Square Re will pay benefits as long as the participants live and receive fixed
payments from Aegon Levensverzekering. EUR 22 million is recognized as deferred cost of
reinsurance with regard to this reinsurance contract, which is amortized over the duration of the
underlying insurance contracts (2016: EUR 23 million).
Employees of Aegon Nederland, including key management personnel, may make use of financing
and insurance facilities at prices available to agents. The benefit to the employees is equivalent to
the margin made by agents. The conditions for these products are the same for key management
personnel and other staff.
Aegon Nederland participates in the treasury and derivative valuation services of Aegon N.V. The
interest rate swaps that Aegon Nederland uses to mitigate interest rate risk are concluded with
Aegon Derivatives Aegon Nederland has received cash collateral on derivative positions via Aegon
Derivatives, see also note 27 ‘Other liabilities and accruals.’
Until 2008 Aegon N.V. granted the employees of Aegon Nederland options as disclosed in note 35
‘Commissions and expenses’. Since 2010, the Board of Directors and ‘Identified Staff’ have been
granted long-term incentive plans. The remuneration of key management personnel, being the
Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board, is disclosed in note 35 ‘Commissions and expenses’.
Aegon Nederland is a member of the Aegon N.V. tax group and settles its current tax liabilities with
the head of the tax grouping as if it were an autonomous taxpayer. Aegon Nederland is jointly and
severally liable for all tax liabilities of the entire Aegon N.V. tax group. It also uses the tax expertise
of Aegon N.V. On October 31, 2017 Aegon Nederland sold its shares in Unirobe Meeùs Groep
(UMG), which is therefore no longer part of the Aegon N.V. tax group.
During 2017 Aegon N.V., the ultimate parent company of Aegon Nederland N.V., determined to
improve the capital position of, Aegon Nederland’s subsidiary Aegon Levensverzekering. This was
done through two capital contributions in terms of share premium by Aegon Europe Holding B.V.
of respectively EUR 200 million on July 7, 2017 and EUR 800 million on August 31, 2017.
Aegon Nederland did not pay dividend to Aegon N.V. in 2017 and in 2016.

46.

Events after the reporting period

There were no post reporting date events that give further information on the situation pertaining
on the reporting date.

Page 206 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

The Hague, April 30, 2018
The Supervisory Board,

J.A.J. Vink

D. Jansen Heijtmajer

D. Terpstra

G.T. Kepecs

D. Jacobovits de Szeged

Page 207 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

The Hague, April 30, 2018

The Board of Directors,

M.J. Edixhoven

R. Zomer

I.M.A. de Graaf – de Swart

W.A. Hekstra

W. Horstmann

Page 208 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Financial statements 2017 of Aegon Nederland N.V.

Report of the Board of Directors
See page 4 of the annual report for the Report of the Board of Directors.

Page 209 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Statement of financial position
(before profit appropriation)

Note

31-12-

31-12-

2017

2016

Amounts in EUR million
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents

3

191

92

Investments

4

2.242

2.671

Shares in group companies

5

10.085

9.137

Borrowings and group loans

6

600

600

Other assets and receivables

7

676

533

18

-

13.812

13.033

Intangible assets
Total assets

Equity and liabilities
Equity

8

- Share capital

24

24

- Share premium

1.645

645

- Revaluation reserves

1.244

1.702

- Remeasurement of defined benefit plans
- Retained earnings
- Net income / (loss)
Shareholders' equity

Borrowings and group loans

9

-736

-845

3.947

3.391

727

570

6.851

5.487

3.600

850

Provisions

10

27

18

Defined benefit liabilities

11

2.693

3.188

Deferred tax liabilities

12

139

43

Other liabilities and accruals

13

502

3.446

6.961

7.545

13.812

13.033

Total liabilities
Total equity and liabilities

Page 210 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Income statement
(ending 31 December 2017)
2017

2016

Amounts in EUR million
Net income / (loss) group companies

530

614

Other income / (loss) after tax

197

-44

Net income / (loss)

727

570

Page 211 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Notes to the financial statements
1.

General information

Aegon Nederland N.V., incorporated and domiciled in the Netherlands, is a public limited liability
company organized under Dutch law and recorded in the Trade Register of the Chamber of
Commerce in The Hague under its registered address at Aegonplein 50, 2591 TV, The Hague with
registration number KvK 27111251. Aegon Nederland N.V. (‘Aegon Nederland’) is wholly owned by
Aegon Europe Holding B.V. in The Hague. Aegon N.V. in The Hague is the ultimate parent of the
group.
Aegon Nederland (or ‘the Company’) and its subsidiaries (‘Aegon’ or ‘the Group’) are active in life
insurance and pensions operations, savings and investment products, asset management
operations, accident and health insurance, general insurance, banking operations, mortgages,
pension administration and intermediary activities.

2.

Summary of significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles in the
Netherlands as embodied in Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Based on article 2:362.8 of
the Dutch Civil Code, the valuation principles applied are based on International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU), as used for the preparation of the
consolidated financial statements of Aegon Nederland.
With regard to the income statement of Aegon Nederland, article 9:402, of Book 2 of the Dutch
Civil Code has been applied, allowing a condensed format.
For the accounting policies we refer to the accounting policies set out in note 2 ‘Summary of significant
accounting policies’ of the consolidated financial statements. These also apply to the separate
financial statements unless stated otherwise.

Group companies
The group companies are stated at their net asset value, determined on the basis of IFRS as applied
in the consolidated financial statements of the Group. For details on the accounting policies applied
for the group companies refer to the consolidated financial statements.

Equity
In addition to the notes in the consolidated financial statements it is reported that revaluation
reserves include legal reserves in respect of group companies. Net increases in net asset value of
the subsidiaries are accounted for in the revaluation reserves since their first inclusion, less any
amounts that can be distributed without legal restrictions.

3.

Cash and cash equivalents

The cash items include an amount of EUR 153 million (2016: EUR 90 million) of cash held in the
segregated accounts at Aegon Levensverzekering that is related to the pension plan of Aegon
Nederland. The remaining cash items are not subject to restrictions.

Page 212 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

4.

Investments

2017

Available for sale debt securities
Loans (amortized cost)
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)
Investments in real estate
Other available for sale investments
Total investments
Current

2016

1.127

1.284

709

743

43

5

350

286

13

353

2.242

2.671

118

445

Non-current

2.124

2.226

Total

2.242

2.671

Aegon Nederland has insured its pension obligations with Aegon Levensverzekering. The
investments represent the investments related to the defined benefit plan of Aegon Nederland
held in the separated accounts of Aegon Levensverzekering. The movement of other AFS
investments compared to 2016 is the result of the sale of UMG.

Page 213 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2017

Debt

Mortgage

Private

Financial

Investments

Other

Total

securities

loans

loans

assets

in real

financial

2017

estate
at FVTPL
At January 1
Acquisitions
Disposal
Unrealized gains/losses through equity

assets

1.284

593

150

5

286

353

173

1

-

112

75

13

374

-279

-35

-

-10

-44

-51

-419

-49

-

-

-

-

4

-45

-2

-

-

-

-

-

-2

-

-

-

1

33

-

34

Amortizations through income statement
Realized gains and losses through income statement

2.671

Other movements

-

-

-

-65

-

-306

-371

At December 31

1.127

559

150

43

350

13

2.242

Fair value

1.127

650

217

43

350

13

2.400

2016

Debt

Mortgage

Private

Financial

Investments

Other

Total

securities

loans

loans

assets

in real

financial

2016

estate
at FVTPL
At January 1

assets

1.178

619

150

-

296

333

146

6

-

5

8

185

350

-143

-32

-

-

-43

-186

-404

105

-

-

-

-

21

126

-2

-

-

-

-

-

-2

-

-

-

-

25

-

25

At December 31

1.284

593

150

5

286

353

2.671

Fair value

1.284

692

224

5

286

353

2.844

Acquisitions
Disposal
Unrealized gains/losses through equity
Amortizations through income statement
Realized gains and losses through income statement

2.576

Page 214 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

5.

Shares in group companies

2017

2016

At January 1

9.137

8.948

Capital contributions and acquisitions

1.068

3

Disposal

-55

-

Net income / (loss) for the financial year

530

614

Dividends received

-190

-40

Revaluations

-398

-388

Other
At December 31

-7

-

10.085

9.137

Refer to note 45 ‘Related party transactions’ of the consolidated financial statements for information on
dividends received. For a list of names and locations of the most important shares in group companies,
refer to note 44 ‘Group companies’ of the consolidated financial statements. The legally required list of
participations as set forth in article 379 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code has been registered with the
Commercial Register of The Hague.

6.

Long-term loans to group companies

2017

2016

At January 1

600

600

At December 31

600

600

This item relates entirely to the subordinated loan with Aegon Levensverzekering to Aegon Nederland.
This subordinated loan was has an indefinite duration; the term of notice is five year. The interest rate is
6%. The carrying amounts disclosed reasonably approximate fair value at year-end.

7.

Other assets and receivables

2017
Equipment
Receivables
Accrued income

2016
45

41

115

64

28

71

Receivables from group companies

173

-

Other

315

357

676

533

Current

316

135

Non-current

360

398

Total

676

533

In the category 'Other' in the other assets and receivables an amount of EUR 315 million (2016: EUR 357
million) represents the value of the contract with Aegon Levensverzekering for the pension plan, that
exceeds the value of the investments (as disclosed in note 4 ‘Investments’) and the cash deposits (as
included in note 3 ‘Cash and cash equivalents’) attributed to the contract. Most of the other assets and
receivables have a maturity of less than one year.

Page 215 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

8.

Equity

2017
Share capital
Share premium
Remeasurement of defined benefit plans

2016
24

24

1.645

645

-736

-845

Revaluation reserves

1.244

1.702

Retained earnings

3.947

3.391

Net income / (loss)
At December 31

727

570

6.851

5.487

Share capital

2017

2016

Authorized share capital

50

Not issued

26

50
26

24

24

The authorized share capital is EUR 50 million, divided into 100,000 shares of EUR 500 nominal value
each, of which 47,194 shares have been issued and fully paid up. There have been no changes since the
previous financial year. Aegon Nederland paid no dividend to Aegon Europe Holding B.V. in 2017 or 2016.

Page 216 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Statement of changes in equity

2017

At January 1
Net income

Share

Share

Remeasureme

Revaluatio

Other

Retaine

Net

Shareholder

capit

premiu

nt of defined

n reserves

legal

d

incom

s' equity

al

m

benefit plans

reserve

earning

e/

s

s

(loss)

24

645

-845

1.702

-

3.391

570

5.487

-

-

-

-

-

570

-570

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

727

727

-

-

-

-

-

570

157

727

-

1.000

-

-398

-

-

-

602

-

-

-

-74

-

-

-

-74

-

-

109

-

-

-

-

109

prior year
retained
Net income
current year
Total net
income /
(loss)
Changes
revaluation
subsidiaries
Changes
revaluation
reserves
Remeasureme
nt of defined
benefit plans
Other

-

-

-

14

-

-14

-

-

Other

-

1.000

109

-458

-

-14

-

637

24

1.645

-736

1.244

-

3.947

727

6.851

comprehensi
ve income /
(loss)
At December
31

The balance of the revaluation reserve, which includes revaluation reserves for real estate and
investments that do not have a frequent market listing, consisted for EUR 54 thousand (2016: EUR 101
million) of items with positive revaluation.
The revaluation reserve and legal reserves, foreign currency translation reserve and other, cannot be
freely distributed. In case of negative balances for individual reserves legally to be retained, no
distributions can be made out of retained earnings to the level of these negative amounts.

Page 217 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

2016

At January 1
Net income

Share

Share

Remeasureme

Revaluatio

Other

Retaine

Net

Shareholder

capit

premiu

nt of defined

n reserves

legal

d

incom

s' equity

al

m

benefit plans

reserve

earning

e/

s

s

(loss)

24

645

-599

2.026

-

2.735

665

5.496

-

-

-

-

-

665

-665

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

570

570

-

-

-

-

-

665

-95

570

-

-

-

-397

-

-

-

-397

-

-

-

64

-

-

-

64

-

-

-246

-

-

-

-

-246

prior year
retained
Net income
current year
Total net
income /
(loss)
Changes
revaluation
subsidiaries
Changes
revaluation
reserves
Remeasureme
nt of defined
benefit plans
Other

-

-

-

9

-

-9

-

-

Other

-

-

-246

-324

-

-9

-

-579

24

645

-845

1.702

-

3.391

570

5.487

comprehensi
ve income /
(loss)
At December
31

Page 218 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

9.

Borrowings from group companies

2017
Loan Optas Pensioenen N.V.

2016

850

850

2.500

-

Loan Aegon Spaarkas N.V.

100

-

Loan Aegon Levensverzekering N.V.

150

-

3.600

850

Loan Aegon Global Investment Fund B.V.

At December 31
Current

15

non-current

3.585

850

Total

3.600

850

Optas Pensioenen gave Aegon Nederland a loan of EUR 850 million in 2007 with an interest rate of
6% and an indefinite maturity. There have been no repayments in 2017 and 2016.
As of January 2017 the core part of the intercompany account with Aegon Global Investment Fund
B.V. has been converted to a fixed term loan of EUR 2.5 billion for a 3 years period with floating
interest.
As of January 2017 the core part of the intercompany account with Aegon Spaarkas N.V. has been
converted to a fixed term loan of EUR 100 million for a 10 years period with floating interest.
As of June 2017 the core part of the intercompany account with Aegon Levensverzekering N.V.
has been converted to a loan of EUR 150 million, consisting of ten loan parts of EUR 15 million with
a maturity vary from 1 year to 10 years at fixed interest per loan part.
The carrying amounts disclosed reasonably approximate fair value at year-end.

Page 219 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

10.

Provisions

2017

Restructuring

Other

Total

provision

provisions

2017

At January 1

1

17

18

Additions charged to earnings

14

1

15

Used during the year

-6

-

-6

9

18

27

At December 31

2016

Restructuring

Other

Total

provision

provisions

2016

At January 1
Additions charged to earnings
Unused amounts reversed through the

10

16

-

1

26
1

-3

-

-3

income statement
Used during the year
At December 31

-6

-

-6

1

17

18

2017
Current

2016
5

1

Non-current

22

17

At December 31

27

18

Refer to note 24 ‘Provisions’ of the consolidated financial statements for information on the
Provisions.

11.

Defined benefit liabilities

Refer to note 25 ‘Defined benefit liabilities’ of the consolidated financial statements for information
on the defined benefit liabilities.

Page 220 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

12.

Deferred tax

2017

Real

Financial

Defined

Estate

assets

benefit

Other

Total
2017

plan
At January 1

10

84

-58

7

43

6

1

69

-3

73

Charged to equity

-

-13

36

-

23

At December 31

16

72

47

4

139

Charged to income
statement

2016

Real

Financial

Defined

Estate

assets

benefit

Other

Total
2016

plan
At January 1

1

58

2

30

91

Charged to income

9

1

22

-23

9

statement
Charged to equity

-

25

-82

-

-57

At December 31

10

84

-58

7

43

13.

Other liabilities and accruals

2017
Current account with other group companies
Income tax payable
Other liabilities

Current
Non-current
Total

2016

425

3.174

-

140

77

132

502

3.446

496

3.446

6

-

502

3.446

The current account with group companies decreased following the conversion of the core part of
the intercompany accounts with Aegon Global Investment Fund B.V., Aegon Spaarkas N.V. and
Aegon Levensverzekering N.V. (see note 9).
Most other liabilities have a maturity of less than one year.

14.

Remuneration Directors and Supervisory Board

Refer to note 35 ‘Commissions and expenses’ of the consolidated financial statements for
information on the remuneration of the Directors and Supervisory Board.

15.

Remuneration Independent Auditor

Refer to note 35 ‘Commissions and expenses’ of the consolidated financial statements for
information on the remuneration of the independent Auditor.

Page 221 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

16.

Employees

Refer to note 35 ‘Commissions and expenses’ of the consolidated financial statements for
information on the number of employees.

17.

Related party transactions

The following transactions within the Aegon N.V. group are of significance from the perspective of
the separate financial statements of Aegon Nederland.
Aegon Nederland has a current account facility with the subsidiaries of the Aegon Nederland group.
At year-end, the amount of EUR 285 million (2016: EUR 3 billion) was drawn upon this facility. The
interest paid on this facility amounts to EUR 2 million (2016: EUR 106 million).
In 2007 Aegon Levensverzekering received a subordinated loan from Aegon Nederland of EUR 600
million for an indefinite period. The loan has a term of notice of five year. The subordination is to
other creditors. The interest rate is 6%. The accrued interest on the group loan at December 31,
2017 was EUR nil (2016: EUR 36 million).
Optas Pensioenen, a subsidiary of Aegon Levensverzekering, granted a loan of EUR 850 million to
Aegon Nederland in 2007 for an indefinite period at an interest rate of 6% and a term of notice of
one month. The accrued interest on the Group loan at December 31, 2017 was nil (2016: nil).
Aegon Nederland provides its group companies with staff and facilities at cost. All intra-group
transactions are accounted for through the current account with group companies (in the separate
financial statements). The total recharge was EUR 295 million (2016: EUR 311 million).
In 2017, Aegon N.V. recharged Aegon Nederland EUR 30 million in overheads and program
expenses (2016: EUR 22 million). In turn, Aegon Nederland recharged these expenses to its group
companies.
As of January 2017 the core part of the intercompany account with Aegon Global Investment Fund
B.V. has been converted to a fixed term loan of EUR 2.5 billion for a 3 years period with floating
interest.
As of January 2017 the core part of the intercompany account with Aegon Spaarkas N.V. has been
converted to a fixed term loan of EUR 100 million for a 10 years period with floating interest.
As of June 2017 the core part of the intercompany account with Aegon Levensverzekering N.V.
has been converted to a loan of EUR 150 million, consisting of ten loan parts of EUR 15 million with
a maturity vary from 1 year to 10 years at fixed interest per loan part.
Aegon Nederland has a defined benefit pension plan for its employees which is administered by
Aegon Levensverzekering. The premium paid to Aegon Levensverzekering was EUR 56 million
(2016: EUR 62 million).
On October 31, 2017 Aegon Nederland sold its shares in Unirobe Meeùs Groep (UMG) to Aegon
Groep Nederland. UMG has insured a large part of its pension obligations for UMG personnel with
Aegon Levensverzekering N.V. As part of the commercial negotiations regarding the sale Aegon
Nederland committed itself to pay certain future pension premiums regarding the UMG contract at
Aegon Levensverzekering N.V. for the period 2017-2020. Aegon Levensverzekering N.V. received
the future pension premiums upfront from Aegon Nederland instead of over time from UMG for an
amount of EUR 65 million.

Page 222 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

During 2017 UMG up streamed EUR 40 million dividend to Aegon Nederland, which was settled via
the intercompany account between Aegon Nederland and UMG.
During 2017 Aegon N.V., the ultimate parent company of Aegon Nederland N.V., determined to
improve the capital position of, Aegon Nederland’s subsidiary Aegon Levensverzekering. This was
done through two capital contributions in terms of share premium by Aegon Europe Holding B.V.
of respectively EUR 200 million on July 7, 2017 and EUR 800 million on August 31, 2017.
This is effectuated by means of an increase of its equity by Aegon Nederland making a cash
contribution on shares already issued by Aegon Levensverzekering to Aegon Nederland.
During 2017 Aegon Nederland provided Aegon Levensverzekering with a capital contribution of
EUR 1,050 million. This improved the SII ratio of Aegon Levensverzekering with and an estimated
40%-points.
Refer to note 45 ‘Related party transactions’ of the consolidated financial statements for more
information on the related party transactions.

18.

Commitments and contingencies

Refer to note 41 ‘commitment and contingencies’ of the consolidated financial statements for more
information on commitment and contingencies.

19.

Events after the reporting period

There were no post reporting date events that give further information on the situation pertaining
on the reporting date.

20.

Proposal for profit appropriation

A proposal will be put to the General Meeting of Shareholders to appropriate the result for the
financial year of EUR 727 million to the retained earnings. This proposal has not yet been
incorporated in the financial statements.

Page 223 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

The Hague, April 30, 2018
The Supervisory Board,

J.A.J. Vink

D. Jansen Heijtmajer

D. Terpstra

G.T. Kepecs

D. Jacobovits de Szeged

Page 224 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

The Hague, April 30, 2018

The Board of Directors,

M.J. Edixhoven

R. Zomer

I.M.A. de Graaf – de Swart

W.A. Hekstra

W. Horstmann

Page 225 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Other information
Statutory provisions regarding profit appropriation
Appropriation of profit will be determined in accordance with article 28 of the Articles of Association
of Aegon Nederland N.V. The relevant provisions read as follows:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

The profit made in a financial year shall be at the disposal of the Annual General
Meeting.
Distribution of profit shall take place after adoption of the financial statements which
show this to be permissible.
The Annual General Meeting may resolve to make interim distributions and/or
distributions charged to a reserve of the company.
Distributions on shares may only take place up to the amount of the distributable
equity.
A shareholder’ claim to a distribution on shares shall lapse after a period of five years.

Page 226 of 227

Annual report 2017
Aegon Nederland N.V.

Independent auditor’s report

Page 227 of 227

Independent auditor’s report
To: The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and Supervisory Board of Aegon Nederland N.V.

Report on the financial statements 2017
Our opinion
In our opinion:


Aegon Nederland N.V.’s consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial
position of the Company and its subsidiaries (together: the Group) as at December 31, 2017, and
of its result and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of
the Dutch Civil Code.



Aegon Nederland N.V.’s stand-alone financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial
position of the Company at December 31, 2017 and of its results for the year then ended in
accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.

What we have audited
We have audited the accompanying financial statements for 2017 of Aegon Nederland N.V., The
Hague. The financial statements include the consolidated financial statements of Aegon Nederland
N.V. and its subsidiaries and the stand-alone financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements comprise of:

the consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31, 2017;

the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the
consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated cash flow statement for the year
then ended; and

the notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory
information.
The stand-alone financial statements comprise of:

the statement of financial position as at December 31, 2017;

the income statement for the year then ended; and

the notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory
information.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements
is EU-IFRS and the relevant provisions of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code for the consolidated
financial statements and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code for the stand-alone financial
statements.

The basis for our opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the section ‘Our responsibilities for
the audit of the financial statements of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
our opinion.

Independence
We are independent of Aegon Nederland N.V. in accordance with the European Regulation on specific
requirements regarding statutory audit of public interest entities, the ‘Wet toezicht
accountantsorganisaties’ (Wta, Audit firms supervision act), the ‘Verordening inzake de
onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assuranceopdrachten’ (ViO – Code of Ethics for Professional
Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence), and other relevant independence
requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the ‘Verordening gedrags- en
beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA – Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with
respect to rules of professional conduct).

Our audit approach
Overview and context
Aegon Nederland N.V. is, through its subsidiaries, a provider of life insurance, pension, savings
mortgages, non-life insurance, banking and asset management, and intermediary activities.
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material
misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we considered where the Board of Directors
made important judgements; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved
making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. In Notes 3 and 40 of
the financial statements the Company describes the areas of judgment in applying accounting policies
and the key sources of estimation uncertainty. Given the significant estimation uncertainty and the
related higher inherent risks of material misstatement, the valuation of insurance contracts and
insurance contracts for account of policyholders, including the design and application of complex
valuation models and the economic and actuarial assumptions that support the calculation, the fair
value of ‘hard to value’ financial instruments, and uncertainties in policyholder claims and litigation
we considered these to be key audit matters as set out in the section ‘Key audit matters’ of this report.
During 2017, the Company sold its 100% holding in Unirobe Meus Group. This warranted our specific
attention and therefore we identified the accounting for this disposal as a key audit matter.
As in all of our audits, we addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including
evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by management that may represent a risk of material
misstatement due to fraud.
Furthermore, to the extent relevant for our audit, we addressed information technology general
controls (‘ITGCs’), that are the policies and procedures used by the Group to ensure information
technology (‘IT’) operates as intended and provides reliable data for financial reporting purposes.

Page 2 of 14

We ensured that the audit team included the appropriate skills and competences which are needed for
the audit of a diverse financial institution. Accordingly, our audit team included industry expertise in
life and non-life insurance, banking and asset management, as well as specialists including actuaries,
IT auditors, treasury, tax, remuneration and valuation specialists. The outline of our audit approach
was as follows:
Materiality

Overall materiality: €55 million.
Audit scope

We conducted audit work in all significant business operations within
Aegon Nederland N.V.

We had all regulated insurance and banking entities in the scope of our
audit, including the investment and real estate operations managed by
related parties. Audit coverage: 95% of consolidated revenue, 100% of
consolidated total assets and 94% of consolidated profit before tax.
Key audit matters

Valuation of insurance contracts and insurance contracts for account of
policyholders including the design and application of complex valuation
models and the economic and actuarial assumptions that support the
calculation

Fair value of ‘hard to value’ financial instruments

Uncertainties in policyholder claims and litigation

The accounting for the sale of Unirobe Meeùs Groep (UMG)

Materiality
The scope of our audit is influenced by the application of materiality which is further explained in the
section ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’.
Based on our professional judgment, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality,
including the overall materiality for the financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent
of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and to
evaluate the effect of identified misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the financial
statements as a whole and on our opinion.

Overall group
materiality
Basis for determining

Page 3 of 14

€55 million (2016: €55 million).
At the start of the planning of our audit we performed a stakeholders’ analysis that

materiality

identified suitable benchmarks and thresholds for determining overall materiality for
the statutory financial statements. We utilised quantitative and qualitative measures
that included the perspective of the common information needs of the parent
company, policyholders, creditors and regulators for assessing suitable benchmarks
and thresholds for determining overall materiality.
Our evaluation of overall materiality has been based on applying 2% of equity. This
resulted in an overall materiality of €137 million (2016: €68 million). The increase in
overall materiality can be attributed to the increased capitalization of the Company
and the fact that we no longer exclude revaluation reserves in the materiality
calculation in line with industry practice.
The allocated materiality to the Company from its parent company that was used for
group reporting purposes amounted to €55 million (2016 €55 million).
We applied the lower of the two amounts.

Rationale for
benchmark applied

Component
materiality

Capital, i.e. solvency is a key measurement for regulators, policyholders and other
creditors. Accordingly, we used a percentage of the Company’s equity as a
quantitative benchmark.
The allocated materiality to the Company agreed with its parent company Aegon
N.V. and reflects its shareholders perspective on the financial performance of the
Company’s operations, and is based on profit before tax.
To each component in our audit scope, we allocate consistently, based on our
judgment, materiality that is less than our overall group materiality. The range of
materiality allocated across components was between €10 to €54 million.

We also take misstatements and/or possible misstatements into account that, in our judgement, are
material for qualitative reasons.
We agreed with the supervisory board that we would report to them misstatements identified during
our audit above €3.4 million (2016: €3.4 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in
our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.

The scope of our group audit
Aegon Nederland N.V. is the parent company of a group of entities. The financial information of this
group is included in the consolidated financial statements of Aegon Nederland N.V. The Group is
structured predominantly along customer segments led by separate management teams that report to
the Board of Directors of Aegon Nederland N.V. The following entities are organized within the retail
segment: Aegon Schadeverzekering, Aegon Levensverzekeringen (Individual life), Aegon Spaarkas,
Aegon Advies, Aegon Bemiddeling and Aegon Hypotheken. The entities Optas Pensioenen, Aegon
Schadeverzekering (Income) and Aegon Levensverzerkingen (Pensions) are organized within the
wholesale segment. KNAB and Aegon Bank form a separate customer segment.
The Group’s accounting process is structured around a centralized finance function that supports the
individual insurance and banking operations within the Aegon Nederland Group, called reporting
units which we consider components in planning and executing our audit. The finance function
maintains all actuarial and tax functions, and also maintains their own accounting records and
controls and reports to senior management and the parent company through an integrated
consolidation and reporting system. In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we

Page 4 of 14

determined the type of work that is needed to be performed by our audit team at each of the reporting
units.
In our view, due to their significance and/or risk characteristics, the financial information of all
regulated banking and insurance operations within the Aegon Nederland group as disclosed in note 44
of the consolidated financial statements, were fully in scope of our Group audit. For all of these
operations the Group engagement team performed that work except for the investment and real estate
portfolios which are managed by related parties. For these positions, which includes own account
investments as well as investments on account of policyholders, we made use of the audit work
performed by the respective component auditors.
Where the work was performed by component auditors or other teams, we determined the level of
involvement we need to have in the audit work at those components. This determination was made in
order for us to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as
a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole. In addition to issuing written
instructions, we developed an oversight strategy for each component based on its significance and/or
risk characteristics to the Group. These strategies included procedures such as regular meetings and
discussions with component auditors to challenge and review of significant audit matters and
judgements within the component team audit files, reviewing extensive reporting to the Group team,
and participating in closing meetings.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were also performed in relation to nonregulated operations, most specifically the intermediary business activities of UMG and Nedasco to
ensure we obtained appropriate coverage across all account balances.
This results in the following audit coverage:
Revenue
Total assets
Profit before tax

95%
100%
94%

None of the remaining components represented more than 1% of total group revenue or total group
assets. For those remaining components we performed, among other things, analytical procedures to
corroborate our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatements within those
components.
By performing the procedures above we have obtained sufficient and appropriate audit evidence
regarding the financial information of the Group to provide a basis for our opinion on the consolidated
financial statements.

Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in
the audit of the financial statements. We have communicated the key audit matters to the supervisory
board. The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters that were identified by
our audit and that we discussed. In this section, we described the key audit matters and included a
summary of the audit procedures we performed on those matters.
The key audit matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole,
and in forming our opinion thereon. We do not provide separate opinions on these matters or on

Page 5 of 14

specific elements of the financial statements. Any comments or observations we make on the results of
our procedures should be read in this context.
Due to the nature of the insurance industry and economic environment the following key audit matters
are consistent with the prior year:

Valuation of insurance contracts and insurance contracts for account of policyholders including
the design and application of complex valuation models and the economic and actuarial
assumptions that support the calculation;

Fair value of ‘hard to value’ financial instruments;

Uncertainties in policyholder claims and litigation.
In 2017 we have added a new key audit matter ‘’The accounting for the sale of Unirobe Meeùs Groep
(UMG)’’ as this was an out of the ordinary course of business transaction that took place during the
year and had a significant impact on the result for the year.
In the table below, we describe the key audit matters and included a summary of the audit procedures
we performed on those matters.

Key audit matter

Page 6 of 14

How our audit addressed the matter

Key audit matter

How our audit addressed the matter

Valuation of insurance contracts and
insurance contracts for account of
policyholders including the design and
application of complex valuation models and
the economic and actuarial assumptions that
support the calculation
Refer to Note 2.17 ‘Summary of significant accounting
policies-insurance contracts’, Note 17 ‘Insurance
contracts’ and Note 18 ‘Insurance contracts for
account of policyholders’.
The Group has significant insurance contract liabilities
stated at €34,4 billion and insurance contracts for
account of policyholders stated at €25,6 billion at 31
December 2017 representing 69% of the Company’s
total liabilities, which mostly relates to the Life and
Pension products.

We used our own actuarial specialists to assist us in
performing our audit procedures.

This is an area that involves significant judgement over
uncertain future outcomes, including primarily the
timing and ultimate full settlement of long term
insurance liabilities and relevant guarantees provided
to policyholders, and therefore we considered it a key
audit matter for our audit.

Consistent with the insurance industry, the
Company uses valuation models to support the
calculations of the insurance contract liabilities. The
complexity of the models may give rise to errors as a
result of inadequate/incomplete data or the design or
application of the models.

Economic assumptions such as investment returns
and interest rates and actuarial assumptions such as
mortality, morbidity and customer behaviour are key
inputs used to estimate these long-term liabilities.
Significant judgement is applied in setting these
assumptions.

During 2017, the Company continued its multiyear review of their actuarial models with continued
focus on those considered medium and high risk.
These model updates in combination with the Group’s
actuarial and economic assumptions update resulted in
certain charges being recorded for the year as
explained in Note 3 ‘Critical accounting estimates and
judgment in applying accounting policies’.


Sustained low interest levels led to a deficit
resulting from management’s liability adequacy
testing of €-1.593 million as of December 31, 2017.

Page 7 of 14

In particular, our audit focused on the actuarial models
considered more complex and/or requiring significant
judgement in the setting of assumptions such as the
relevant guarantees provided to policyholders.
We evaluated the design and tested the operating
effectiveness of internal controls over the actuarial
process including management’s determination and
approval process for setting of economic and actuarial
assumptions. We assessed the Company’s validation of
certain models considered medium and higher risk by
the Company as a result of complexity and/or
magnitude. We considered the appropriateness of
actuarial judgements used in the models, which may
vary depending on the product and/or the
specifications of the product, and also the compliance
of the models with the applicable accounting standards.
We also assessed and tested the internal controls over
the Company’s actuarial analyses including estimated
versus actual results and experience studies.
For the assumption setting process, we assessed the
experience analyses performed by the Group. Our
assessments also included challenging, as necessary,
specified economic and actuarial assumptions
considering management’s rationale for the actuarial
judgments applied along with comparison to applicable
industry experiences.
Furthermore, we performed audit procedures over the
models and model updates to determine the models
and systems were calculating the insurance contracts
liabilities accurately and completely.
We tested the validity of management’s liability
adequacy testing which is a key test performed to check
that the insurance liabilities are adequate as compared
to the expected future contractual obligations. Our
work on the liability adequacy tests included assessing
the reasonableness of the projected cash flows and
challenging the assumptions adopted in the context of
both the Group’s and industry experience and specific
product features. In addition, we validated the
calculations performed.
We assessed the appropriate application of shadow loss
recognition in line with the company’s accounting
policies.

Key audit matter
As the Group applies the principle of shadow loss
recognition, this amount has been charged to Other
Comprehensive Income.

Fair value of ‘hard to value’ financial
instruments
Refer to Note 2.6 ‘Summary of significant accounting
policies-investments’ and Note 40 ‘Fair value of assets
and liabilities’’.
The Group’s investment portfolio, including net
derivative assets, totalling €77 billion represents 83% of
the Company’s total assets. Quoted prices from liquid
market sources can be obtained for a large portion of
the portfolio.
The areas that involved significant audit effort and
judgement were the valuation of illiquid instruments.
These instruments are valued based on models and
assumptions that are not observable by third parties
which are generally considered level III as included in
Note 40 ‘Fair value of Assets and Liabilities’. As of yearend these Level III investments presented at fair value
amounted to €2.257 million. Those investments have a
higher potential risk to be affected by error or
management bias. Therefore these areas are considered
a key matter for our audit. Our focus considered both
the positions that are presented at fair value on the
balance sheet and those positions carried at amortized
cost on the balance sheet but for which fair value is
required to be disclosed.
The risk was not uniform for all investment types and
industries and was considered greatest for derivatives,
direct and indirect investments in real estate, mortgage
loans, asset backed securities; hedge funds, private
equity funds and other alternative investments; and
unlisted equity and debt securities.

Page 8 of 14

How our audit addressed the matter
We also assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in
note 17 and note 18 of the financial statements in
relation to insurance contract liabilities.
We assessed the design and tested the operating
effectiveness of internal controls over the investments’
valuation and impairment process including
management’s determination and approval of
assumptions and methodologies used in model-based
calculations, controls over data integrity and change
management for internally operated valuation models
and management’s review of valuations provided by
external experts or data vendors. We performed
substantive audit procedures to supplement procedures
over internal control testing.
We assessed pricing model methodologies against
industry practice and valuation guidelines.
We compared assumptions used against appropriate
benchmarks and pricing sources, investigated
significant differences and performed our own
independent valuations, using valuation statements,
independent broker quotes and underlying financial
data, where applicable.
We evaluated the cash flow and other relevant testing
performed by the Group in order to identify any
impairment in relation to investments.
We used our valuation specialists to assist us in
performing our audit procedures.
We also assessed whether the Group’s disclosures in the
consolidated financial statements in relation to the
valuation of investments are in accordance with EUIFRS.

Key audit matter

How our audit addressed the matter

Uncertainties in policyholder claims and
litigation
Refer to Note 41 ‘Commitments and contingencies’
The insurance industry continues to face consumer
activism and regulatory scrutiny over product design
and selling practices. The Company has encountered
claims and litigations in this respect. Depending on the
actual legal position and expectations from
management, claims, including litigation related, are
either provided for as a liability or reflected as
contingent liabilities in the notes to the financial
statements. The Company uses external legal experts
where applicable to evaluate its legal positions.

We gained an understanding of the policyholders’
claims and litigations through discussions with
management including general legal counsel.

Given the uncertainty and judgement in this area we
determined this as a key audit matter.

Page 9 of 14

We have read the internal position papers prepared by
the Company. We also obtained lawyers’ letters to the
extent considered necessary for our audit. For all
(potentially) material claims we tested the underlying
facts and circumstances considered relevant for the
legal advisors to come to their assessments and
assessed the best estimate of outflows as determined by
the Company.
We tested that the Group has properly reflected the
claims and litigations in either the provisions or
contingent liabilities by assessment these against IAS
37. We also assessed the completeness and adequacy of
the related disclosures to determine they were in
accordance with EU-IFRS.

Key audit matter

How our audit addressed the matter

Sale of Unirobe Meeùs Groep (UMG)
Refer to Note 25 ‘Defined Benefit liabilities’ and Note
32 ‘Other income’
Aegon Nederland sold its shares in UMG, an
independent financial advisory group, to Aon Groep
Nederland for € 295 million. The transaction is
consistent with Aegon Nederland's strategic objective to
optimize its portfolio across its businesses. The
divestment lead to a book gain of € 207 million pre-tax
(€ 198 million post tax), which is reported as “other
income”. As a consequence of the sale and as referred to
in Note 25, UMG’s pension obligations and related
assets were derecognized as part of the Company’s IAS
19 provision and transferred to insurance liabilities as
they are insured with Aegon Levensverzekering N.V..

We assessed the accuracy and appropriateness of the
result on disposal recognized by Aegon Netherlands.
For this purpose we read the signed share purchase
agreement and confirmed the proceeds and the
conditions of the sale. We reconciled the proceeds
received to the contractual terms.
We assessed the IFRS book value of UMG by validating
the movements during the year until the date of derecognition.

The accounting of the sale of Unirobe Meeùs Groep
(UMG)’’ was an out of the ordinary course of business
transaction that took place during the year and had a
significant impact on the result for the year and
therefore we considered it a key matter for our audit.

We reconciled the movements in the Company’s IAS 19
pension provision, respectively insurance liabilities
related to the transfer of UMG pension obligations to
underlying actuarial documentation.
We also considered the adequacy of the disclosures in
the consolidated financial statements relating to the
sale of UMG to determine whether they were in
accordance with IFRS-EU.

[]
[]

Report on the other information included in the annual report
In addition to the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon, the annual report contains
other information that consists of:

Report of the Board of Directors;

the Report of the Supervisory Board;

the other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
Based on the procedures performed as set out below, we conclude that the other information:

is consistent with the financial statements and does not contain material misstatements;

contains the information that is required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained in our audit
of the financial statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information contains
material misstatements.
By performing our procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil
Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of such procedures was substantially less than the scope
of those performed in our audit of the financial statements.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the other information, including the report
of the Board of Directors’ report and the other information in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the
Dutch Civil Code.

Page 10 of 14

Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
Our appointment
We were initially appointed as auditors of Aegon Nederland N.V. by the Board of Directors for the
years 2014 to 2016 following the passing of a resolution by the shareholders of Aegon N.V. at the
annual meeting held on May 15, 2013. We were reappointed as auditors of Aegon Nederland N.V. by
the Board of Directors for the years 2017 to 2018 following the passing of a resolution by the
shareholders of Aegon N.V. at the annual meeting held on May 19, 2017 representing a total period of
uninterrupted engagement appointment of 4 years.

No prohibited non-audit services
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we have not provided prohibited non-audit services as
referred to in Article 5(1) of the European Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory
audit of public interest entities.

Services rendered
In addition to the audit, we have provided the Company and its Dutch subsidiaries services required by
laws and regulations as well as other audit services, being attestation services (including agreed upon
procedures for third parties), assurance engagements other than audits and reviews of published
quarterly historical information, assurance reports on controls at a service organization for customers
of the Company, comfort letter related procedures and audits of regulatory information for the
Company’s regulator the Dutch Central Bank (DNB).

Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the supervisory board for
the financial statements
The Board of Directors is responsible for:

the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS
and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; and for

such internal control as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation
of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error.
As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for
assessing the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting
frameworks mentioned, the Board of Directors should prepare the financial statements using the
going-concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the
company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Board of Directors
should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to
continue as a going concern in the financial statements.
The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the company’s financial reporting process.

Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our responsibility is to plan and perform an audit engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain
sufficient and appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for our opinion. Our audit opinion aims to

Page 11 of 14

provide reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material
misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high but not absolute level of assurance which makes it
possible that we may not detect all misstatements. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They
are considered to be material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
Materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the
effect of identified misstatements on our opinion.
A more detailed description of our responsibilities is set out in the appendix to our report.
Amsterdam, 30 April 2018
PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V.

Originally signed by E.L. Rondhout RA

Page 12 of 14

Appendix to our auditor’s report on the financial statements
2017 of Aegon Nederland N.V.
In addition to what is included in our auditor’s report we have further set out in this appendix our
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements and explained what an audit involves.

The auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional scepticism throughout
the audit in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical requirements and independence
requirements. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Our audit
consisted, among other things of the following:

Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether
due to fraud or error, designing and performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and
obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one
resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the intentional override of internal control.

Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control.

Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of
accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Board of Directors.

Concluding on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting, and based on the audit evidence obtained, concluding whether a material
uncertainty exists related to events and/or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the
company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty
exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the
financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report and
are made in the context of our opinion on the financial statements as a whole. However, future
events or conditions may cause the company to cease to continue as a going concern.

Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including
the disclosures, and evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
Considering our ultimate responsibility for the opinion on the company’s consolidated financial
statements we are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. In
this context, we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures for components of the
group to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial
statements as a whole. Determining factors are the geographic structure of the group, the significance
and/or risk profile of group entities or activities, the accounting processes and controls, and the
industry in which the group operates. On this basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or
review of financial information or specific balances was considered necessary.
We communicate with the supervisory board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal
control that we identify during our audit. In this respect we also issue an additional report to the audit

Page 13 of 14

committee in accordance with Article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding
statutory audit of public-interest entities. The information included in this additional report is
consistent with our audit opinion in this auditor’s report.
We provide the supervisory board with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related
safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the supervisory board, we determine those matters that were of
most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the
key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes
public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the
matter is in the public interest.

Page 14 of 14

