Everyone
Connected
KPN Integrated
Annual Report 2017

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Everyone connected
We make life more free, fun and easy by
connecting people. We’re passionate about
offering secure, reliable and future-proof
networks and services, enabling people to be
connected anytime, anywhere, whilst at the
same time creating a prosperous and more
sustainable world.

anniversary in 2017, connects vulnerable groups
in society, such as elderly people or sick children,
with the world around them. In our online
annual report (www.kpn.com/annualreport),
we take a closer look at this in a documentary
about the significance of social contact in a
digital world.

We connect people through our products and
services, as well as by supporting socially
responsible initiatives. The KPN Mooiste
Contact Fonds, which celebrated its 10th

“I try not to use
my phone
on public transport.”

“KlasseContact
feels just like
I’m at school.”

2

“I really can still
communicate normally
with the outside world.”

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Appendices

Contents
KPN at a glance
Introduction by the CEO
Our main achievements
Review of the year

Financial report
2
4
5

Who we are and what we do
Our purpose and the world around us
Our strategy and activities
Our value creation model
Our capitals to operate

Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Financial Statements
Other Information

76
123
131

Appendices
6
8
10
13

The long-term value we create
The value we create for our stakeholders
14
-	Customer value
14
-	Integrated products and services
16
-	State-of-the-art networks and ICT infrastructure
20
-	Sustainable employability
22
-	Shareholder value
24
The value we create for society
29
-	Innovation29
-	Reliability32
-	Sustainability34
Our long-term impact on society
41

Appendix 1: Alternative performance measures
Appendix 2: Overview and connectivity of non-financial
information
Appendix 3: Transparency
- About this report 
- Stakeholder engagement and materiality determination
Appendix 4: Glossary of terms

139
142
146
146
151
157

Digital appendices
For an overview of our social and environmental figures,
GRI Content Index and list of top risks, please see
www.kpn.com/annualreport.
Pages of the Report by the Board of Management

1-53

How we safeguard long-term value
Corporate governance
Compliance & risk
Composition of the boards
Supervisory Board Report
Remuneration Report

42
46
52
58
64

Our reporting approach in 2017
In preparing this Integrated Annual Report, we have taken
the principles of the International Integrated Reporting Council
(IIRC) into account. For the CSR information included in this
report, we followed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
Standards - Option: Comprehensive. We have detailed our
reporting approach in Appendix 3.
KPN participates in several sustainability benchmarks, like the
Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), Carbon Disclosure
Project (CDP) and the Transparency Benchmark (TB). Our
ambition is to maintain a leading position in these benchmarks.
This way, we keep improving our performance by comparing it
with that of peers. An overview of KPN’s performance in different
indices during 2017:

	Ranked as the telecommunications industry leader on the DJSI

World Index and included for the sixth consecutive year.
	Included in CDP’s Climate A List for the second year.
	KPN’s Integrated Annual Report 2016 won the European Excellence

Award for the best Integrated Annual Report & CSR report.
Our 2016 report was built around our nine most material topics.
For our 2017 report, we have used our value creation model to
structure our reporting. The section, The long-term value we
create describes how our strategy and activities lead to value
creation for our stakeholders and society by using our assets.
In ‘How we safeguard long-term value’ we describe our
governance framework and the main topics that our Board of
Management and Supervisory Board dealt with in 2017.
Throughout the report we provide detailed performance data.
The Financial Report includes the Financial Statements.

1

Contents

KPN at a glance
Introduction by the CEO

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Introduction by the CEO

Customer first, improving business
performance, financially healthy,
and leader in sustainability
ICT is fascinating. It’s developing at an increasingly rapid pace. Smartphones first appeared in
2007; now there are 2.6 billion worldwide. You can use them in many different ways - time and
place are no longer an issue. Working, relaxing with Spotify or Netflix, using apps, social media,
you name it. In addition, new technological applications improve the quality and security of our
life considerably. For example, the freedom that heart patients experience when their heart
rate is remotely monitored. Or sensors that permanently measure the solidity of embankments.

KPN may connect devices, but it’s really people that we
connect, making their lives more free, fun and easy. Our reliable
and energy-efficient networks and data centers ensure fast and
stable connections at home, at work, on the move and in
emergency situations. Every day, our expert employees look for
opportunities to further improve.
A resilient KPN
In April 2018, I will hand over to my successor, Maximo Ibarra.
I have served KPN for a total of 34 years, including two terms as
CEO, working with great pleasure and passion, in a sector that is
continuously changing. I am proud that KPN is in good shape in
all respects. Customers are significantly more satisfied than they
were years ago. We have succeeded – at a challenging time for
the sector – in making the company stronger, more flexible and
financially healthy. We have improved our reputation
throughout the years and are among the top 3 European
telecom companies in this respect. We maintained our market
positions in the Netherlands, despite strong international
competitors and at the same time managed to become the
most sustainable telecom company in the world. That is a
considerable achievement, for which I would like to thank a
large number of dedicated colleagues.

Those experiences are now moving closer together. This is
reflected in our Net Promoter Score (NPS), which is higher
than ever before.
By working in an agile manner, we have been able to respond
far more quickly to market and technological developments.
This fits perfectly with our ambition to become the best service
provider in the Netherlands. We want our employees to provide
our customers with the best service, products and networks, so
we need to continuously challenge ourselves. From customer
service, shops, webcare and mechanics to ICT staff, account
management and corporate departments, we all have to make
a difference.
Financially strong and constantly innovating
KPN delivered a solid performance last year. Our strong
operating and commercial performance provided the
foundation for a solid financial position. The growth in
customer numbers illustrates our strong performance. In the
Consumer segment, we have more postpaid customers and
households with fixed-mobile bundles, more broadband
customers and interactive TV customers, while our SME
segment has experienced strong growth of multi play
customers.

Best service provider through simplification and digital
transformation
Technology is an essential part of who we are and what we do.
Everything we want to achieve for our customers and society
has an effect on our own business operations. The KPN
Simplification program and the associated digital
transformation ensure that we work in an increasingly uniform
manner across all our channels.

Stringent cost control in all segments and the ongoing
simplification of our organization, systems and product
portfolio also contributed to a strong financial position.
A structurally lower cost level resulted in run-rate savings of
EUR 110 million compared with the end of 2016. Our free cash
flow continued to grow too, and totaled EUR 745 million (excl.
Telefónica Deutschland dividend) in 2017.

We now have one single face, making us recognizable to all our
customers. For example, the shop experience used to be
different from the online one, and the online experience was
different from a conversation with a customer service agent.

Hybrid access strategy including fiber roll-out, VDSL upgrades
and continued mobile investment ensure our infrastructure
remains best in class. Also, with customer demand and online
behavior changing and much more on-demand and streaming

2

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Appendices

TV being watched, KPN is investing significantly in the capacity
of the network to improve the quality and stability even more.
A new decentralized Metro Core network at 161 locations forms
the backbone of our network, enabling us to bring content
closer to our customers. We will continue optimizing our 4G
network - the introduction of LTE-M will make it suitable for all
kinds of Internet of Things (IoT) applications. For all
conceivable IoT applications and issues, we believe we can now
realize a solution via KPN’s various IoT networks.

One of our best-known projects is KlasseContact. This project
uses technology that allows chronically ill children to take part
in lessons ‘live from home’ or from a hospital. So despite their
illness, they remain in contact with their classmates.

We are continuously examining how technology can help
address the topics and challenges facing society today and
tomorrow. We collaborate with main suppliers to accelerate
innovation via the KPN Ventures external investment fund and
our KPN New Business department. This joint approach
enables us to benefit and learn from the speed with which
startups can innovate, while they benefit from the brand name
and marketing capabilities of KPN. In 2017, this new approach
led to a variety of innovations in the domain of SmartLife,
Smart Cities and eHealth.

Saying farewell
I would like to thank all my colleagues for their cooperation and
wish them every success in providing KPN’s customers with
excellent service and continuing to surprise them in a positive
way. And of course I would like to thank you, the customer,
shareholder or reader of this document, for your trust in a
company that is, I feel, a Dutch national icon.

The KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds has been around for ten years
now, which is why the Integrated Annual Report showcases the
fund’s activities. Furthermore, in 2017 we received 1,883
voluntary contributions on many different projects.

Contribution towards a sustainable society
As the green connector par excellence, KPN has the ability to
use technology to help create a safe and healthy future for
society. With that strong conviction, my colleagues and I have
pursued bringing about sustainable change. Since 2011, we
have switched over entirely to green electricity. As of 2015, our
operations have been climate neutral and we have featured in
the top 10 of the Telecom sector in the Dow Jones
Sustainability World Index for six consecutive years. What’s
more, I am very proud that in 2017 we came in first in our
category on this prestigious list of the world’s most sustainable
companies. But we have even greater ambitions, so we are
pressing ahead. In 2025, we want our network operations to be
virtually 100% circular.
We are keen to create long-term value that also contributes to
the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Through our strategy,
we contribute significantly towards the Industry, Innovation
and Infrastructure (SDG 9), Sustainable Cities and Communities
(SDG 11) and Sustainable Production and Consumption (SDG
12) goals. We also make a noticeable contribution towards
many other goals.
Connecting everyone in the Netherlands
Something else I look back on with pride is the success of the
KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds. This is where the human side of
technology really comes into its own. The purpose of our
foundation is to reconnect people for whom social contact with
the world around them is not easy, such as the elderly, the
chronically ill and autistic children.
Unfortunately, solitude is a growing problem, even though
means of communication are readily available. So we try to find
ways to ensure that everyone can participate in a society in
which new technological developments are having an ever
greater influence on our lives.

Eelco Blok - CEO

Watch Eelco share his views:
www.kpn.com/annualreport
3

Contents

KPN at a glance
Our main achievements

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Our main achievements

Strong progress in execution of our strategy
In 2017, we proved to be well positioned to adjust to the dynamics of our environment, as
reflected in our main achievements. Aligned with our strategic focus areas, the key figures
below show that we continue to deliver value in financial, commercial and operational areas.
Customer satisfaction

Reputation ¹

Net Promoter Score in the Netherlands

RepTrak Pulse score

2015 3
2016 6
2017 8

Data usage
Usage of total data traffic²
Average 4G download speed mobile network

2015 70.8
2016 67.4
2017 70.5

Energy consumption
In petajoule
Energy consumed by KPN
Estimated energy consumption savings
by KPN customers³

2015 2.6 Tbps
2016 3.4 Tbps
2017 4.7 Tbps
2015 50 Mbps
2016 51 Mbps
2017 58 Mbps

Converged services
Households in fixed-mobile bundles4
Postpaid customers in fixed-mobile bundles

2015 29% / 2015 33%
2016 37% / 2016 43%
2017 42% / 2017 51%

2015 3.481
2016 3.382
2017 3.232

Realized run-rate savings
Simplification program⁵
€ million

Multi play seats in SME

2015 1.701
2016 1.817
2017 1.926

2015 58k
2016 316k
2017 474k

2015
~140

2016
~180

2017
~110

EBITDA⁶

Free cash flow6,8

Capital expenditure6

€ million

€ million

€ million

Adjusted EBITDA7
Adjusted EBITDA⁷ margin The Netherlands

2015 2,419
2015 38.6%
2016 2,428
2016 40.0%
2017 2,417
2017 40.8%

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

2015
552

2016
631

2017
745

2015
1,300

2016
1,193

2017
1,139

2016 and 2015 figures are restated to the fourth quarterly average, which is in line with the calculation of NPS KPIs. See Appendix 3 for further details.
The data demand peak for main traffic streams is based on continuous five minute timeframe measurements.
Estimated energy consumption saved by customers from using our ICT solutions. See Appendix 3 for further details.
As percentage of broadband customers.
Second wave of Simplification program started in 2017. First wave of Simplification program finalized end of 2016.
Based on continuing operations.
EBITDA adjusted for the impact of restructuring costs and incidentals. Reconciliations for 2017 and 2016 can be found in Appendix 1.
Free cash flow excluding Telefónica Deutschland dividend.

4

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Appendices

Review of the year

What we did in 2017

January – March
	Record number of mobile data used on New Year's Eve.
	KPN acquired DearBytes, thereby expanding its managed
security activities.
	KPN won Tweakers' Best Mobile Provider 2016/2017.
	KPN acquired cloud and ICT services provider Divider.
	KPN exchanged 6% of its shares in Telefónica Deutschland
for Telefónica shares, which it subsequently sold.
	KPN moved six of its data centers into a new entity NL|DC,
which is the new name for KPN colocation data centers.

July – September
	KPN entered in a partnership with Tencent to launch the
WeChat Go SIM card for Chinese tourists in Europe.
	KPN strengthened its position in the public healthcare sector
by acquiring Cam IT solutions.
	KPN became main sponsor for the Dutch Premier League
(Eredivisie) and entered into a 4-year sponsorship deal with
the Royal Dutch Football Association (KNVB), supporting
football nationwide.
	KPN recognized as most sustainable telecom company
according to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.

April – June
	KPN commenced a EUR 200 million share buyback program.
	New mobile line-up with increased data bundles and ‘roam
like home’ launched for all KPN customers.
	KPN complied with the newly applicable legislation on
handset credits in the Netherlands.
	KPN acquired Solcon, a Dutch provider of internet, fixed and
mobile telephony, hosting, TV and secure e-mail services for
consumers and businesses.

October – December
	KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds celebrated its 10-year
anniversary.
	Introduction of new internet & TV subscriptions for small
business clients.
	KPN welcomed new client deals such as ABN AMRO, PGGM
and Prinses Maxima Centrum.
	Circular manifesto signed by KPN and 7 major suppliers
striving for circular products and networks as of 2025.
	KPN strengthened its position as a leading Dutch security
services provider by acquiring QSight IT.
	KPN announced that Maximo Ibarra will succeed Eelco Blok
as CEO as of the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
	Bouke Hoving was awarded CIO of the Year 2017.

5

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do
 Our purpose and
the world around us

The long-term value we create

Our purpose and the world around us

We make life more free, fun
and easy by connecting people
Virtual reality, remote medical diagnoses, motion-dependent street lighting and autonomous
cars. Digitalization is changing our society as we move towards an increasingly connected
future. We are passionate about offering secure, reliable and future-proof networks and
services, enabling people to be connected anytime, anywhere, while at the same time creating
a more prosperous and more sustainable world.
The world around us

KPN in Dutch society

ICT is omnipresent in people’s daily lives. More and more
people are using computers and robots at work, boundaries
between work and private life are being eroded and social
interaction increasingly takes place through apps and other
digital means. Innovation accelerates. ICT facilitates an
economy directed towards shared value. ICT plays an
important role in reducing the ecological footprint, making
society more sustainable. The world is becoming increasingly
interconnected.

KPN plays an important role in shaping the technological progress
of Dutch society. While we cannot predict the future, we can
imagine what it could look like and to a certain extent foresee
how it might unfold. A solid digital infrastructure provides a
basis for the digitalization of our society. If there’s no
connection, then there’s no ICT. Therefore, KPN’s underlying
network for modern society is like blood vessels for the human
body.

Three major developments have fundamentally changed our
industry in the past decades: the introduction of mobile phones,
the internet and digitalization. These major changes require a
high level of systematic, future-oriented and innovative
thinking. Digitalization in particular drives rapid change across
various sectors. This consequently shifts consumer needs.
Concern for digital safety and privacy is becoming more and
more important. The growing dependency on ICT is turning
digital products and processes into attractive targets for cyber
criminals. In addition, there is a desire for personalized, simpler
products and services, anytime and anywhere. For businesses,
these developments may have disruptive effects on
interactions with their customers, the streamlining of
organizational processes and the way business models work.
At the same time, it impacts the development of products and
services. In an increasingly dynamic and competitive landscape,
KPN strives to differentiate its services by delivering highquality and innovative products and providing the best
customer service.
Besides technological changes, also changes in laws and
regulation such as the abolishment of roaming charges in
the EU and implementation of handset credit legislation
affect customer behavior and our business models.

6

With our fixed and mobile network, our ICT infrastructure and
our data centers, we provide the means to connect. New
technologies contribute greatly to realizing progress at large.
Issues in society relating to such things as health, education,
work, sustainability and safety which affect us all, will benefit
from new technologies. ICT and security play a vital role in
dealing with these challenges by bringing together people,
companies, governments and organizations to create solutions.
With our innovative products and services, our networks and
skilled workforce, we contribute to society. We increase our
impact by using our capabilities to their full potential.
Our succesfull initiative KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds, which
celebrated its 10th anniversary, is one example of how we live
up to our aspirations. With this foundation, we successfully
launched a long-term initiative of social inclusion, working with
social partners to encourage the social interaction of vulnerable
groups in our society.
Read and see more about the challenges Dutch society faces
and our response in this Integrated Annual Report and in the
videos online.

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Appendices

Our market position
Acting on these changes in society is the decisive factor in the
success of our business and in strengthening our market
position as a leading supplier of ICT services. Digitalization
affects KPN at its core: our networks, interface with customers

and operational processes. It holds great opportunities, particularly
because KPN is a large player in the ICT market. The following
summary of our SWOT provides a brief overview of our perceived
capabilities within the environment in which we operate.

Strengths

Weaknesses

	Integrated services and broad consumer market portfolio to
provide attractive combinations of fixed, mobile and ICT
services for our customers.
	Advanced telecommunications networks throughout
the Netherlands to provide high-quality service, including
critical communication nationwide.
	Strong competences in network and cybersecurity to
protect our customers’ data.
	Highly skilled and motivated employees.
	Increased customer satisfaction.

	Extensive customized business market portfolio and
processes for large enterprises.
	Solid, but still complex IT systems and processes.
	Challenging dynamic market changes, due to complex and
heavy organizational structure.
	Complex market segment structure.

Opportunities

Threats

	New propositions to communicate, collaborate and
consume media lead to increasing customer demand.
	Need for innovative partnerships and scalable solutions
that address social challenges arising from trends like
climate change, urbanization and the aging population.
	Technological developments in infrastructure, software and
virtual networks and the Internet of Things.
	Leverage data and analytics capabilities to create value in
the current business model and develop new business models.

	Fierce competition from international network providers
and OTT players.
	Increasing threats to the confidentiality, integrity and
availability of KPN networks, systems or customer data.
	Regulatory decisions in the EU and the Netherlands.
	Disruptive technologies and new business models that we
need to adapt to.
. 	Dependency on large suppliers.

7

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do
Our strategy and activities

The long-term value we create

Our strategy and activities

We simplify, grow and innovate
It is our ambition to become the best service provider in the Netherlands. In realizing this,
we need to serve our customers with the best digital experience through investing in a new
portfolio, technologies and integration of the best networks. This is captured in the three
pillars of our strategy through which we intend to maximize the value we create for our
customers, employees, shareholders and society, and at the same time maintain a solid
financial position.

Simplify

We streamline our portfolio
and standardize our work
processes.

To provide our customers with an
excellent digital customer service, we
want them to be able to deal with
almost everything online. As such, we
are streamlining our portfolio and
improving our customer experience by
implementing more efficient work
processes. To respond faster to market
conditions, we are standardizing our
operations and aligning joint services
and co-operation within the value chain.

Grow

We increase value
for the customer and
KPN through
customer-focused
investments.

We broaden and deepen our customer
relationships by continuously
developing innovative services that
meet customer needs. By increasing the
efficiency of our operations and aiming
for optimal use of our network, we are
maximizing the value of our assets. We
invest in new technologies, products
and services, and build new business
models and revenue streams for the
future. We enhance our relevance by
creating a positive social impact.

Innovate

We innovate for the
best customer experience,
for today and in the future.

We virtualize and automate our
processes, infrastructure and services
where possible and desirable. We
cooperate with many different partners
to provide our customers with
innovative services. We guarantee the
secure connection of our clients and
Dutch society with our integrated
networks, multiple data centers and a
low impact on the environment.

Our core values
Our core values are: customer, together and simplicity. They
form the essence of our organizational culture. Our behavior
changes together with the changing environment within and
outside KPN. Our ambition is to become the best service
provider in the Netherlands, key to which is customer centricity.
Our customers demand higher standards when it comes to the
quality and speed of our services and products. This requires a
continuously agile and flexible KPN organization. In our KPN
eXperience framework Greenprint, we translated the behavior
we expect from our employees and managers in our working
environments into an understandable language. This is
supported by our KPN Kompas, which defines the principles of

8

an agile organization, as well as our approach towards
leadership development and our code of conduct.
Long-term behavioral changes are only possible in a working
culture that values open and honest feedback. Our leadership
enables this culture and provides the right example. We are learning
by allowing mistakes and to detect them and amend them
day-by-day. KPN stimulates employees to be authentic and
values different opinions to achieve shared goals. Teamwork is
crucial when it comes to the success of KPN. By cooperating to
improve our customer processes, we can safeguard the
long-term continuity of our business. This makes us proud.

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Appendices

Our core activities
Our core activities stem from our responsibility for KPN’s
operational activities for the Dutch networks (both fixed and
mobile) and ICT infrastructure for services provided to KPN’s
consumer, business and wholesale customers in the
Netherlands.
Building and maintaining the infrastructure
KPN builds and maintains its infrastructure in a continuous,
iterative process with help from suppliers addressing coverage,
capacity, speed, quality, continuity and safety requirements.
Consequently, KPN’s main investments and expenses are
conducted to build and maintain its infrastructure.

Delivering connectivity
We deliver connectivity services to end-users. We do this by
making sure that we continue to correctly route calls, data and
video streams between and towards the users of our networks.
For the end-users, it’s all about the quality of the output which
is determined by the functioning of our core services.
Serving the customer
We serve our customers throughout the customer journey, both
commercially for billing purposes and operationally for service
delivery purposes. Our service consists of all interaction between
the customer and KPN for the duration of the relationship.

Our services
Consumer
We are committed to offering KPN’s retail customers a broad
range of services in the areas of communication, information,
entertainment and commercial services through single-play and
multi play offerings. The services we offer across our different
brands include fixed and mobile internet, TV and telephony.

Business
KPN offers its business customers (small, medium and
large enterprises) a complete portfolio of services from
different brands - from fixed and mobile telephony and
internet to a range of end-to-end solutions in infrastructure,
workspace management, cloud, security, data network and
data center services.

Wholesale & iBasis
We provide connectivity solutions to KPN’s wholesale partners
via our fixed and mobile networks. Through iBasis, KPN is a
leading international wholesale voice carrier in terms of
minutes carried and a worldwide provider of LTE connectivity
services for mobile operators.

9

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do
Our value creation model

The long-term value we create

Our value creation model

We connect everyone and everything in an
innovative, reliable and sustainable way
By offering innovative products and services,
we provide the means for customers to transition
towards a more digital environment. We help
consumers design their digital life in a free,
fun and easy manner. We support companies
in their digital transformation to simplify client
interactions and business processes.
To properly understand the ways in which we impact society,
we have identified the value we create for our stakeholders and society
as well as our impact, using the six capitals model of the International
Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) integratedreporting.org.
We have visualized what impact our organization has on Dutch
society and highlighted the assets which are most valuable to our
business model and provide the necessary input for performing
our core activities. We do this by following our strategy and
ensuring a responsible operation. The value we create for our
stakeholders is the direct result of our business model. Our
business outcomes ensure we can create long-term value for
society, which in turn helps us contribute to the realization of the
UN’s Sustainable Development Goals.
Our Integrated Annual Report follows the structure of this value
creation model, providing insights into our results, the value
we created in 2017 for our stakeholders and the long-term value
we create for society. Our report is structured to show how our
activities contribute to a more free, fun and easy life.
To investigate the topics that are most important from both
our business perspective and our stakeholders’ perspective,
we annually perform a materiality assessment. Appendix 3
describes this process and presents the most material topics in
the materiality matrix. Furthermore, the connectivity table in
Appendix 2 shows how the most material topics are linked to our
value creation model and how they are reported on in this report.

Our valuable assets:
Capitals to operate

Customer base
and demands

Partnerships &
suppliers

Networks, IT infrastructure
and mobile spectrum

Skilled workforce

Solid financial basis

Green energy

10

Business model:
Why / How / What

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Value for our stakeholders:
Direct result of our business model

Appendices

Value for society:
Effects of output business model

Mission/Vision
We are the green connector.
We connect everyone and
everything in an innovative,
reliable and sustainable way.

Innovation
We create a future
with humanoriented digital
technology.

Integrated products
and services

Reliability

Ambition

We provide a safe
digital society.

Becoming the best service
provider in the Netherlands,
with the best people, the best
products, the best services
and the best network.

Customer
value

Strategy
- Simplify
- Grow
- Innovate

Sustainability
We facilitate
growth ICT
with a rewarding
contribution to
society.

Long-term impact on society:
Core activities
- Delivering connectivity
- Serving the customer
- Building and maintaining
the infrastructure

State-of-the-art networks
and ICT
infrastructure

Governance

Shareholder value

Compliance

Risk & control

Sustainable
employability

11

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do
Our capitals to operate

The long-term value we create

Jan Kees de Jager - CFO

“Our solid financial
performance forms a
strong basis to accelerate
innovation built on our
entrepreneurship
combined with an
increasing number of
partnerships with
startups.”

Frank van der Post - CCO
“We support our customers in
digital transformations. Our
new and innovative ICT
services lead to high customer
satisfaction and generate
additional revenue streams in
both the consumer and
business segments.”

Joost Farwerck - COO
“We continue our efforts to
explore and deliver smart
solutions, built on fixed-mobile
convergence to enable
easy access to existing and
new services even in the most
remote areas.”


12

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Appendices

Our capitals to operate

Brief overview of our valuable assets
We allocate our six key assets or transform them to maximize the value we create for our
organization, our stakeholders and society at large in the short and the long-term.
Customer base and demands
We value our customer base. In the Netherlands,
we have a leading market position in telecom
industry, with commitments to millions of
customers. These commitments are important to us because
customer demand for our services and products constitutes
our license to operate. We are welcoming new customers on a
daily basis: from mobile to interactive TV, from broadband users
to customers entering into fixed-mobile bundles and from
business customers to wholesale customers. We continuously
seek for ways to improve the products and services we offer.
CCO: Postpaid customer base
CCO: Broadband customer base
Consumer: Interactive TV customer base
Consumer: Fixed-mobile households
Business: multi play seats
Wholesale: fixed lines	

5,580k
3,062k
2,116k
1,253k
474k
931k

KPN continuously innovates and upgrades
the capacity of its state-of-the-art integrated
network and ICT infrastructure to serve KPN’s
consumer, business and wholesale customers.
Capital expenditures
Average 4G download speed mobile network
Usage total data traffic

Our people create and represent our brands.
With a diverse population of professionals,
young talent, interim employees, our
workforce is equipped to anticipate to changing market needs
and offer maximum added value. From our shop assistant to
our webcare specialist, from our field engineer to our senior
managers. All our employees work day in, day out to make KPN
the best service provider in the Netherlands.

EUR 1,139m
58 Mbps
4.7 Tbps

Solid financial basis
Capital providers provide us with the
necessary capital for our capital-intensive
business. We aim to realize a return on
investment that outperforms the cost of
capital while solidifying our financial position.
Market capitalization
Net debt/EBITDA ratio
Credit Ratings Moody’s/S&P/Fitch

Skilled workforce

Full-time domestic personnel
FTEs in Commercial segments
(incl. serving the customer)
FTEs in Operations segments (incl. building
infrastructure and delivering connectivity)
FTEs in Other (incl. SSO and corporate center)

Network, IT & mobile spectrum

EUR 12.2bn
2.5x
Baa3/BBB-/BBB

Green energy

6,026

As a company at the heart of society, KPN has
made a conscious decision to care for the
environment. We use 100% green electricity
for our operations which include networks,
data centers, offices and shops and charging stations for cars.
We consumed 3.232 PJ in 2017 compared to 3.382 PJ in 2016
despite the substantial rise of volume of data communication
transported via our networks

5,788
1,207

Green electricity consumption	
Energy consumption

13,021

100%
3.232 PJ

Partnerships and suppliers
KPN is always looking for new partnerships and
partners with inspiring visions to create new
business. We work with suppliers with whom we
can explore strategic goals and improve our supply chain.
Partnering innovative startups & entrepreneurs
~60
KPN Ventures Fund size
EUR 70m

Note: All figures on this page are presented as of 31 December 2017.

13

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create
The value we create for our
stakeholders

The value we create for our stakeholders

Customer value
Customer satisfaction has grown to an all-time high, based on our Net Promoter Score. This
indicates that our investments in high-quality products, services and simplicity are valued by
our customers. Nevertheless, customers’ needs are continuously changing. We therefore invest
in our employees to be trained and motivated to have the customer as the starting point for all
actions and decisions to drive further improvements.
KPI

Result 2017

Result 2016

13
-1
8
25

10
-3
6
N/a

NPS Consumer (Mobile & Residential)
NPS Business
NPS NL
NPS KPN Fixed Mobile1
1 Represents customers with a fixed subscription and indicates that they also have a mobile subscription of KPN.

KPN eXperience
We create the intended customer experience with the aim of
making life more free, fun and easy. Therefore, we focus not
only on product development, but even more on customer
journeys. Good customer service starts with motivated
employees who want to go the extra mile and see the customer
as the starting point for all our actions and decisions. KPN has
employees with passion and expertise who are keen on
working together to get the very best results. To support this
culture, KPN eXperience coaches continuously initiate real
conversations about this subject. In 2017, more than 300 KPN
eXperience ambassadors helped to guide their teams towards a
better customer experience.

Customer loyalty
Customer loyalty depends on how customers experience our
services and perceive their interactions with KPN. The extent
to which people intend to recommend us is a good indication
of how well we are doing. To remain attractive to existing and
new customers, we continued to simplify our products and
processes in 2017 and kept focusing on providing an excellent
customer experience. We satisfied a number of our customers
by directly granting customers 50 GB data on their mobile
device so they remain connected whenever they experience
problems with their inHome services.

14

Also, we have improved our Customer Service for business
customers. Last year business customers joined us through
MijnKPN Grootzakelijk, the portal for large business customers,
which enables them to easily do business online with KPN.
Another initiative for our business customers is the
improvement of our KPN ÉÉN service offering, a complete and
flexible ICT portfolio. As a result, we see a strong improvement
in the NPS of that Customer segment.
We are making good progress at becoming the best service
provider, with KPN customer satisfaction at an all-time high.
Also, we managed to improve our reputation benchmark
position. Nevertheless, we will continue to focus on improving
our customer journey even further. It is our goal to offer our
customers a seamless experience whenever they contact us,
regardless of the channels that they use.
Customer feedback
In becoming the best ICT service provider, we continuously
seek our customers’ feedback to improve our products and
services. By extensively and continuously making use of
feedback, we have the opportunity to directly collect the
customer’s feedback after they use our services. In 2017, KPN
took the next step by involving customers early on in product
development by opening the KPN eXperience lab in
Amsterdam, where we involve customers almost daily in the

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

development and innovation of our services. In the lab’s
in-house interview setting, we quickly gain insights through
interviews and co-creation sessions with our customers. We ask
their opinions, test the usability of our solutions and prototypes
of our ideas. Since the opening in April 2017, we have welcomed
over 600 customers to the eXperience lab.

Reputation
KPN made great strides in 2017 in terms of how it is appreciated
by the general public in the Netherlands. With a score of 70.5¹,
we reached a high level of the RepTrak Pulse for the seventh
consecutive year. We are number 3 on the top 30 ranking of
Dutch companies in the industry-adjusted ranking of the
Reputation Institute and we are in the top 3 of the European
Telcos’ ranking.
KPN has shown significant improvements since 2012 in the
drivers of reputation that were selected by the Board of
Management as the most crucial from a strategic and
reputation point of view. Some of those drivers are included
in the reputation targets of the Long-term Incentive Plan.

Sponsorship
We connect people through high-quality products and services,
and through sponsorship too. We believe safeguarding cultural
heritage contributes to the loyalty, goodwill and preference
of the Dutch public for our brand. Therefore, we support typical
Dutch sports such as speed skating and soccer, arts and
cultural institutions such as the Rijksmuseum, Koninklijk
Concertgebouw and Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen.
Our sponsorship strategy in the Netherlands is our way of
creating additional value for Dutch society. We feel that it’s
important to put our knowledge, technology, employees and
financial contributions at the disposal of society in order to
make life more free, fun and easy for all Dutch citizens.

Appendices

services and to promote KPN’s main partnership with the
Dutch Eredivisie and Fox Sports.
TEAMKPN Sportfonds
Not all national team sports get the same opportunities,
despite some great achievements. The TEAMKPN Sportfonds
has been set up especially to support these promising teams.
Our support of sports teams with limited resources, like the
national men’s volleyball team, means they can keep their
Olympic dream alive.
Arts and culture
KPN main sponsor of the Rijksmuseum
The collection of the country’s most important museum is a
source of pride and a national treasure. As the museum’s main
sponsor, KPN contributes to making the Rijksmuseum’s artwork
accessible for everyone in the Netherlands, both at the
museum and digitally. In late 2017, we launched a state-ofthe-art Rijksmuseum app that provides guided tours through
the museum and includes high-resolution images of the entire
collection.
The Royal Concertgebouw
Music connects people. That’s why we support the Royal
Concertgebouw in Amsterdam with our ICT products and
services. Via the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds, we also help
vulnerable groups in society get acquainted with classical
music.
Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen
It is KPN’s intention to become the official ICT partner of the
Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen Depot, which will be ready
in 2020. In 2017, we were lead sponsor of the Mad about
Surrealism retrospective exhibition, which included worldfamous artwork by Dali and Miro.

Sports sponsorship
Speed skating
KPN is the main sponsor of the Dutch speed skating team. We
have sponsored the Royal Dutch Skating Association (KNSB)
since 2010. Sponsoring the national team and related activities
helps strengthen our connection with Dutch society.
Soccer
KPN concluded a four-year contract with both the Royal Dutch
Football Association (KNVB) and the Dutch Premier League
(Eredivisie). As soccer is the most popular sport in the
Netherlands, KPN likes to associate itself with the sport. The
goals of the partnerships are to increase brand preference and
awareness, and NPS, to upsell and cross sell KPN products and

1 This figure is the fourth quarterly average, which is in line with other
calculation methods such as NPS KPIs. See Appendix 3 for further details.

15

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create
The value we create for our
stakeholders

The value we create for our stakeholders

Integrated products and services
Our consumer base is growing thanks to our efforts to provide better customer
quality, to deliver integrated solutions and to simplify our product portfolios.
New business opportunities and revenue streams are constantly explored and
invested in to maintain our leading position as a supplier of ICT services.
Consumer
Our ambition to be the best service provider also applies to the
competitive Consumer segment. With customer-centric
propositions offering freedom of choice, ease of use, control
and excellent service, we aim to realize this ambition. With that
as our basis, we focused in 2017 on service quality, fixed-mobile
convergence, being the best-in-class content aggregator in TV
and enhancing products and services for consumers at home.
Quality service
Improvements in our products and services led to a rise in
customer satisfaction (NPS) to +13 in 2017 from +10 in 2016.
As a consequence of our improved service, calls to KPN call
centers decreased by 29%. The NPS among customers
with a fixed-mobile combination (KPN brand) was especially
high at +25.
We achieved this through our long-term Quality Time program.
Started several years ago, this program compises of a
dedicated multidisciplinary team that is constantly monitoring
and improving the quality of the entire service chain. This was
combined with a focus on improving customer journeys to
ensure our processes are optimal from a customer point of view.
Fixed-mobile convergence
Fixed-mobile convergence continued to grow amid strong
market demand. For the main KPN brand, adoption was again
strong in 2017, with the household base growing 12%. Just like
the KPN, XS4ALL and Telfort brands, we also launched a
fixed-mobile proposition for Simyo.
The total number of fixed-mobile households rose to 1.3 million
by end 2017 from 1.1 million at end 2016, representing 42% of
the broadband customer base (2016: 37%). The number of
postpaid customers in fixed-mobile bundles grew to 1.9 million,
equivalent to 51% penetration of the postpaid base (2016: 43%).
Of the KPN brand postpaid base, 65% is now part of a fixedmobile bundle (2016: 56%).
In 2017, KPN added 113,000 IPTV and 85,000 broadband
customers to its base. This includes the addition of 17,000 IPTV
and 47,000 broadband customers through the consolidation of
ICT service provider Solcon per Q3 2017.

16

TV frontrunner
We enhanced our iTV proposition, with the introduction of 4K
in our premium proposition. After integrating Netflix into our
platform last year, we introduced Netflix billing and Replay TV
this year, which enables people to watch almost all programs
from Dutch channels from the previous seven days.
A new trend is that consumers only want to pay for what they
actually use. Heeding that demand, we unbundled Spotify and
some channels as a standard feature from our premium fixed and
mobile propositions, while reducing the fee for these packages,
and making additional paid packages available for those who do
want extra TV channels or Spotify.
WiFi at home
Providing good WiFi at home remains a key priority for the
consumer market. To boost WiFi quality for customers, we
started an in-home hardware upgrade program, installing
extenders in customers’ homes.
Focus on value
Our continued focus on the high-value segment of the market
through our leading KPN brand helped grow our customer
base and service revenues. Revenue-generating units (RGUs)
per household rose to 2.19 from 2.16 in 2016 and average
revenue per household increased to EUR 43 (2016: EUR 41),
mainly driven by a changing mix towards more bundled
households and the effect of the price increases effective as of
1 July 2017.
Revenue-generating
units per household

2.19
2016: 2.16

Average revenue per
household

€ 43
2016: € 41

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Changing behavior
As of 1 May 2017, the Financial Supervision Act has made mobile
phone users more cautious about taking out loans to buy phones,
and increasingly opting for SIM-only subscriptions. We responded
with moves such as reintroducing lower priced Nokia handsets
in the Netherlands. By offering these handsets, the customer
can avoid the EUR 250 threshold entering into a handsetcredit contract, a check on income and financial obligations and
a registration with the Bureau for Credit Registration (BKR).
Another change to consumer behavior, stemmed from the
abolition of EU roaming costs in 2017, which led to a significant
increase in data use by people traveling in the EU.

Business
In all segments of the business market, KPN continues to
migrate customers to integrated solutions and new
technologies. Whatever the size of the company, we aim to
deliver total solutions that make the best use of our portfolio of
services, from fixed and mobile telephony and internet
to end-to-end solutions in infrastructure, workspace
management, data network and data center services.
We continue to simplify our portfolio, having started last year
with phasing out products and services. We are focusing on
moving clients from legacy network services like Private Branch
Exchange (PBX) to flexible and scalable solutions such as
software-defined network services. For our legacy portfolio on
fixed voice and broadband, we aim to migrate our customers
to a future-proof portfolio before 2020. We also generated
growth in IT services (such as security and workspace
management), Internet of Things (IoT) and multi play. We also
included business parks in our program to roll out high-speed
broadband via our hybrid access strategy.
Easy to deal with
We want KPN to be easy to do business with and are
increasingly digitalizing our operations so customers can
interact more easily with us. Key to this is how accessible we are
via touchpoints such as our website and helpdesk. We began
measuring this last year on a small scale through the Customer
Effort Score. Our NPS among business customers improved last
year to -1. To support customer satisfaction, we launched a
proposition for small businesses with fewer than five
employees (self-employed and SoHo). This is based on our
Consumer proposition, which makes small business eligible for
fixed-mobile benefits in KPN Compleet and provides them with
business features such as a dedicated customer service desk,
approximately 2,000 small businesses signed up by end 2017.
Bundled services
We realized strong growth in our fixed-mobile services in the
business market, especially among SMEs, where the uptake
of our flagship product KPN ÉÉN accelerated significantly.
KPN ÉÉN is an integrated solution that leverages our leading
position in connectivity and provides attractive upsell and

Appendices

cross-sell opportunities for IT services, such as workspace
management and cloud & security services. In LE & Corporate,
the bundling effect was less prevalent.
Cybersecurity and cloud
Cybersecurity is a crucial focus for all companies and part of the
business market solutions KPN offers. We are continuously
expanding our range of high-quality security services to business
customers. In 2017, we further strengthened KPN’s position as a
leading security services provider in the Netherlands with the
acquisitions of QSight IT, a leading managed security services
and DearBytes, a public cloud consultancy provider.
Last year we acquired Divider, a specialist in cloud services
for multi-branch organizations such as retailers that are using
software-defined networking. We also acquired Cam IT
Solutions, an IT services provider for the healthcare and public
sector in the Netherlands. When we acquire such companies,
we make a plan how to ensure that we derive the full benefit of
their expertise, capabilities and entrepreneurial attitude.
Customers continued moving from on-premise data storage to
KPN data centers or KPN’s Managed Hybrid Cloud, which flexibly
combines our award-winning data centers with the integrated
solutions of leading international third-party IT companies.
Adding value to data
Connectivity has always been our core business. We are
increasingly combining connectivity with knowledge, and so
adding value for our clients to the data we gather. One example
is online marketing firm DTG, which became a customer of
KPN’s Managed Hybrid Cloud in 2017.
Talking Traffic, created by KPN and our partners for the
Dutch Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment, enables
intelligent solutions that provide road users with real-time
traffic information. Last year we trialed Talking Traffic with two
trucks on the A4 motorway, with smart technology aimed at
generating fuel savings.
New business
Besides our standardized solutions we also offer tailor-made
solutions for larger corporate clients. We were pleased to both
sign up new customers and extend or expand existing
contracts. KPN signed several large deals with business
customers such as ABN AMRO, to whom we provide
connectivity and security services. Revenues from new services
increased 17% in 2017, driven by KPN’s leading position in the
Dutch market for security and IoT.
The Digital Dutch
in 2017 KPN organized The Digital Dutch, an interactive event
for business customers, for the second year in a row. The event
was designed to help businesses from SMEs to large corporates
- to seize digital opportunities and apply IT solutions to serve
their own customers even better. The event was highly rated,
confirming the appeal this topic holds for our clients.
17

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create
The value we create for our
stakeholders

Wholesale mobile
connections

Wholesale fixed
connections

The value we create for our stakeholders
Wholesale
Wholesale provides connectivity solutions to KPN’s fixed and
mobile wholesale partners via KPN’s fixed and mobile networks.
To meet the strategic goals of simplify, grow and innovate, KPN
enters into complementary (international) partnerships with
both mobile and fixed customers.
Partnerships
In 2017, KPN entered into new partnerships with parties such
as Truphone and NLE and joined the Next Generation
Enterprise Network Alliance-ngena in the fixed connectivity
domain. Together with Tencent, China’s largest internet
software company, and Sunway, a leading internet video
operator, KPN launched the WeChat Go SIM card for Chinese
tourists travelling to Europe.
Product development
KPN strives to further simplify its wholesale product portfolio.
In 2017, KPN continued the migration of wholesale customers
from regulated unbundled local loop (ULL) services to
commercially agreed virtual unbundled local access (VULA)
and wholesale broadband access (WBA) services and remains
committed to enable providers to deliver broadband speed to
their end customers. Furthermore, we stimulated migration
from traditional voice to IP voice services.
Market dynamics
Fixed Wholesale revenues were impacted by lower international
voice traffic, partly offset by a positive net intake of WBA and
VULA services. Mobile Wholesale revenues were impacted by
competitive dynamics such as price pressure in the Dutch mobile
market leading to lower revenues from MVNOs. Wholesale
mobile data increased, resulting in a strong increase in data
usage of 67% which offsets the decrease in wholesale call
volumes (minutes) of 6%. ‘Roam like home’ regulation within
the EU increased visitor roaming revenues by 51%.
Focusing on operational excellence supports KPN’s strategy to
remain and enhance its position as a hub for international
connectivity with voice, roaming, content delivery and peering.
It also helps in becoming the preferred enabler for digital
platforms such as WeChat.

18

775k
2016: 778k

931k
2016: 1,001k

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

iBasis
iBasis, a wholly-owned KPN company, supports carriers and
other service providers by offering seamless connectivity
and analytical services for voice, data and IoT services.
Changing market dynamics
In 2017, iBasis continued to build its customer base in
international LTE connectivity services, securing new key
customers and establishing itself as one of the top brands in
the industry. iBasis was voted the best IPX (LTE data) provider
in the world and was ranked as one of five Tier 1 LTE
connectivity providers by independent research. LTE Data and
Signaling revenue increased by more than 80% in 2017, while
LTE signaling volume has more than doubled due to the larger
customer base and increasing use of data by mobile end-users.
The implementation of ‘roam like home’ in the EU has
significantly contributed to this growth.

Appendices

Average revenues
per minute
in cents of EUR

3.8
2016: 4.1

Number of minutes
in billions

18.7
2016: 20.9

The ongoing decline in the wholesale voice carrier market
and the loss of committed traffic from certain customers led
to pressure on revenues and volumes. In 2017, iBasis benefitted
from temporary arbitrage opportunities in the global voice
market, helped by its routing capabilities, leading to a
significant margin uplift.
Recognizing the continued pressure on international voice
minutes due to changing end-user behavior and the growing
use of free IP peer-to-peer calling, iBasis has launched
initiatives to simplify the network, its organization and further
enhance billing and routing capabilities. These initiatives
contributed to a significant lower cost base in 2017 and will
contribute further in 2018 and beyond.
iBasis solidified its position as one of the leading companies
in international VoLTE services, implementing the first
commercial connection for international VoLTE services
between KPN in the Netherlands and SK Telecom in South
Korea.
Providing analytics-based services
iBasis offers operators a range of advanced analytical tools
called InVision, which enable customers to actively manage
service quality, identify revenue opportunities and better serve
their subscribers. InVision’s capabilities were expanded to
include LTE data services and will continue to develop in order
to serve customers in our mobile and IoT arena.
Enabling next-gen digital services
In 2017, iBasis further developed its services for IoT providers
concentrating on an innovative and industry leading E-SIM
solution. A launching customer signed in February 2017 and
this has led to a new revenue stream.

19

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create
The value we create for our
stakeholders

The value we create for our stakeholders

State-of-the-art networks and
ICT infrastructure
In order to deliver good customer value, we continuously upgrade, rationalize and
standardize our networks and infrastructure.
KPI
Average 4G download speed
Usage of total data traffic1
Weighted downtime (compared to last year YTD)2

Result 2017

Result 2016

58 Mbps 51 Mbps
4.7 Tbps 3.4 Tbps
-38%
+55%

1 The data demand peak for main traffic streams is based on continuous five minute timeframe measurements.
2 Weighted downtime = Combined downtime of platforms and systems within our Network organization.

Continuous investment in high-quality and
reliable networks
The internet is an essential part of people’s daily lives and they
depend on our infrastructure to keep them connected, whether
it’s to work, shop or to socialize. To ensure the best customer
experience, KPN continuously innovates and upgrades the
capacity of its best-in-class integrated network and ICT
infrastructure.
Access to network
The high coverage of FttH/FttC within KPN’s network allows
KPN to deliver next generation access to the majority of Dutch
households. The high number of fiber connections running to
Dutch homes, streets, mobile sites and business parks puts
KPN in an excellent position to benefit from the latest access
technologies. 76% of Dutch households now have possible
access to speeds of at least 100 Mbps. We changed the focus
to: (1) the large cities where we started with FttC roll-out, (2)
business areas where we upgrade the connection of business
customers and (3) rural areas where we started with a pilot
using a combination of DSL and LTE technology. Because of
this change in our focus, we introduced a KPI to measure total
data traffic, rather than the amount of Dutch households with
possible access to speeds of at least 100 Mbps.
The average 4G download speed was 58 Mbps by the end of
2017. More than speed, however, we focused on enhancing the
quality of our 4G LTE connections, especially voice quality. We
erected new masts to increase coverage and capacity to enhance
user experience and improve capacity of the LTE network. KPN
continued to roll out carrier aggregation in 2017 and made
VoLTE services available to an increased number of customers.

20

KPN has activated the new Internet of Things (IoT) network
LTE-M at several locations in the Netherlands. The LTE-M
network is complementary to the existing nationwide LoRa
network and is expected to be rolled out nationwide in 2018.
The major difference between LTE and LTE-M is power
efficiency, LTE-M enables battery-powered devices to send
and receive data. With LTE-M, KPN completes its IoT
connectivity offer.
From May till October 2017, KPN tested the new service Sneller
Internet Buitengebied (product name for Fast Internet in Rural
Areas), a combination of DSL and LTE technology in one
high-speed internet service. Test results showed that 87% of
the participants are satisfied with the internet speed offered. As
of 1 November 2017, Sneller Internet Buitengebied can be
offered to customers in rural areas. We will approach 2,500 KPN
customers in selected rural areas to use this service.
In the second half of 2017, we increased our efforts to upgrade
capacity on hundreds of our mobile sites to absorb the vast
growth in mobile data usage by our customers while keeping
quality of service on par. The growth of total data traffic, is a
striking indicator for the growth of our business.
Digitenne
In 2016, KPN obtained a new license for digital ether television
(Digitenne) until 1 February 2030 from the Radiocommunications
Agency (Agentschap Telecom) for free. This guarantees continuity
for hundreds of thousands of Digitenne customers. Due to the
implementation of the new broadcast standard DVB-T2, KPN
will start exchanging all leased Digitenne TV tuners in 2018.

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Appendices

Migration to new IT platforms
After migrating KPN-branded mobile consumers and all our
fixed consumer KPN customers to new IT platforms in 2016,
we also migrated mobile wholesale customers, mobile business
market customers and prepaid mobile Telfort customers. We
will decommission the legacy mobile IT systems in early 2018.

New technologies
In 2017, we updated our VoiceMail platform for both fixed and
mobile telephony services applying to consumer and business
customers. For mobile Android users we introduced Visual
Voicemail, which means that you can see all voicemail
messages in an overview and you can return a call by pressing
a button.
In 2016, we activated voice over LTE (VoLTE) on our 4G data
network, using the same high-speed infrastructure for both
data and phone calls. Voice calls are transmitted in ‘packages’
in the same way as emails and other data. Calls are connected
quicker and the sound quality is better.
KPN entered into a partnership with Van Happen Containers,
active in the field of waste processing. KPN Things provides
Van Happen Containers with an end-2-end solution with
IoT-devices, connectivity by LoRa network and an IoT data
platform. By implementing this IoT solution containers are
made smart, and customers can be served more efficiently.
Real-time information shows where containers are located and
for how long. This information makes the invoicing process for
the end customer more transparent and reduces pressure on
Van Happen Containers’ administrative organization.

Simplifying and securing our network
In 2017, we completed an upgrade program in our core network.
We rolled out a decentralized content delivery network
(D-CDN) on our 161 Metro Core locations to bring business
content services closer to the customer. Routing IPTV traffic
through D-CDN represents approximately 35% traffic spend
savings. Furthermore, Life Cycle Management programs are in
place and continued in 2017. We began the phase-out of
traditional telephony services and will scale this up in 2018.
We switched off and decommissioned old equipment to
simplify the network and improve efficiency. In 2017, this saved
30 GWh in energy.
We improved our iTV quality to a very high level that we
maintained since September. We are also ranked number 1 in
the Netflix speedindex since September 2017.
In 2017, there were 8 large outages affecting more than 100,000
customers and smaller outages taking relatively long to resolve.

21

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create
The value we create for our
stakeholders

The value we create for our stakeholders

Sustainable employability
We are adjusting our way of working to ensure our people have the right skills for an agile way
of working. By facilitating personal development, the competences and skills of our workforce
continuously evolve and collectively they support our strategy and answer customer needs.
KPI
Overall percentage of women at KPN in the Netherlands
Employee survey score for engagement
Sustainable employability:
% of employees with a new external job after active participation in an
outplacement program

Serving our customer
Our people are one of our valuable assets. From back office
employees and colleagues in our sales force to our field
engineers and service managers, everyone at KPN works to
deliver the best possible service and products to our
customers. Our KPN eXperience program guides our
employees’ activities, based on the premise that we put our
customers first. In 2017, our workforce comprised 13,838
employees (13,021 FTE).

Enhance agility and collaboration
Driven by our mission to become the best service provider,
we want to enhance customer focus in 2018. We plan to
experiment with new methods of collaboration across
departments in order to explore how these new ways of
working could have a positive effect on customer experience.
In 2018, we want to make further progress towards more
efficient and agile ways of working because we believe that this
is most helpful in creating value for our customers faster and at
a lower cost.
One of these experiments is the forming of so-called tribes.
These are defined as groups of employees working on a
common purpose. Tribes may comprise up to 150 people from
different parts of the organization. The general idea is that
people in a tribe identify customer needs in their specific
business segment and work closely together on serving those
needs. In organizational theory, tribes should have a high level
of autonomy, should be less hierarchical, have shorter
communication lines and can take decisions quickly and
independently. In 2018, we hope to achieve good results with
this new way of working.
22

Result 2017

Result 2016

23%
80%
83%

24%
77%
87%

We expect this agile way of working to be introduced in other
business units as well – whenever this makes sense from a
business and customer perspective – and believe it will have a
positive impact on both our Net Promoter Score (NPS) and
engagement scores. We evaluate our approach in collaboration
with our works councils.
In 2017, we proceeded with the partial relocation of KPN offices
which started last year. Approximately 600 staff moved from
The Hague to our new head office in Rotterdam as part of
plans to use office space more efficiently and create modern
hubs that put into practice the new way of working.
Sustainable employability
As part of building a future-proof workforce, we seek to promote
sustainable employability. We therefor stimulate and support
people so they continue to develop themselves. This way they
can work to the best of their abilities, creating value for the
company and strengthening their position in the labor market.
Our ambition to build an agile way of working is leading to a
changing workforce. This is reflected in the way we are able to
attract people with new capabilities from the labor market and
create new opportunities for our employees. We adjusted our
company model to ensure we have people with the right skills
to help us on our journey to become the best service provider.
As we continue to simplify our business and deliver quality
improvements, which is one of our strategic priorities, FTEs in
some areas decrease. At the same time, we need people with
new skills and competencies to support our strategy. For
instance, we need data scientists, agile coaches, gamers,
cybersecurity specialists, and more IT specialists. As such,
we support employees who may lose their position to acquire
different skills, enabling them to find a new role inside or
outside KPN.

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Facilitating development
To facilitate personal development and remain employable in the
future, we have been providing individual employability budgets
and will continue to do so. Personal development is further
supported by our job-related training and the KPN Academy,
our advanced online portal where employees can find
information about available training and education. In this way,
they can strengthen their skills and position on the labor market,
enhancing their prospects to move into a new role, either at KPN
or elsewhere. We also created new ways for our employees to
develop competencies in areas such as digitalization and data
analytics, enabling our business to quickly adjust to the
increasingly rapid changes in technology and global markets.
We facilitate this by making a wide range of courses available.
Our Future Work program intends to raise awareness among
employees about the importance of their own development
and sustainable employability. It helps them develop plans to
invest in their skills, vitality and resilience.
Engaging talent
We strengthened our recruitment efforts to attract the people we
need to realize our agenda of growth and innovation. We again
ran a recruitment campaign in Dutch media and toured Dutch
universities and college campuses to recruit talented graduates.
As our society becomes ever more international, and given the
highly competitive labor market we operate in, we also look
abroad for talented people with the skills and ideas we need to
achieve our strategic goals.
In the annual survey among highly skilled professionals
conducted by Intermediair magazine in 2017, KPN was ranked
the number one Dutch telecom provider they would most like
to work for. KPN’s overall ranking in 2017 was 20.
Our employee engagement survey showed that 86% (2016:
84%) of employees said they take pride in the company.
Changing leadership culture
Introducing a different way of working requires a different
management style. We expect managers to help their teams to
work well together, rather than merely supervising and
directing employees. Managers should also act as coaches,
encouraging employees to develop themselves and allowing
them to take on more responsibilities. We are introducing a
revised process of leadership potential assessment,
contributing to building an open and honest feedback culture.

Appendices

reappointments. To reach this target, we implemented
additional policies and measures.
Gender diversity in senior management increased slightly in
2017 to 20% female from 19% in 2016. In middle management,
16% were female in 2017 (2016: 17%). For the company as a
whole, 23% of the workforce was female in 2017 (2016: 24%).
We reached out to specialized recruitment companies,
organized mentee programs for talented women and
established an internal network of women. We prefer to
include women in the shortlist for vacancies from scale 12.
KPN believes meeting the targets will be accelerated when
the diversity targets become part of the short-term incentives
(STI plan) for senior management by making it part of the
discretionary factor. This revised STI policy was introduced in
fall of 2017 and will be first measured and practiced over the
full year of 2018. Vacancies above salary scale 12 are only
allowed to be filled when the shortlist compiles at least 50%
female candidates. In addition, a minimum of 1 out of 3 in the
appointed functions should be executed by a woman.
KPN is committed to creating an inclusive workplace where
lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) people can be
themselves and are valued. Our LGBT platform KPN Pride
addresses LGBT issues directly related to working at KPN.
Workplace Pride, a non-profit organization promoting LGBT
inclusion in the workplace, ranked KPN as an ambassador.
Together with Workplace Pride and Leiden University, KPN
also supports the Workplace Pride Chair, an academic chair for
research and teaching in LGBT topics.
Other diversity networks are: Still Going Strong (55+),
YoungKPN, Colourful KPN (employees with a migration
background), Pretty Smart (highly intelligent employees),
G3 (accepted, appreciated, valued: successful employees
due to their uniqueness).
Health and vitality
We believe healthy workers are more engaged, can cope more
effectively with everyday stress and are better prepared for
their future. We offer programs such as stress management
workshops and mindfulness training. At XS4ALL, we also
promote healthy working conditions and a healthy lifestyle
through our Fit4all initiative. We believe these efforts enhance
vitality and contribute to increased employability.

Diversity and inclusion
Diversity refers to all the unique characteristics of humans
contributing to results. We believe boosting diversity will help
us build the agile teams we need to achieve growth and
innovation and prevent insufficient competency in KPN’s
workforce. KPN aims to employ 30% women in its workforce at
all levels. This also applies to the composition of the Board of
Management and Supervisory Board, excluding

23

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create
The value we create for our
stakeholders

The value we create for our stakeholders

Shareholder value
KPN is committed to creating value for its shareholders by executing its strategy. This led to
solid operational and financial results in 2017, supported by a simplified and lean cost structure
and a growing free cash flow in combination with innovative investments.
KPN Group
Adjusted EBITDA
Capex
Free cash flow1

Result 2017

Result 2016

€ 2,417m
€ 1.14bn
€ 745m

€ 2,428m
€ 1.19bn
€ 683m

1 Excluding the Telefónica Deutschland (TEFD) dividend and the one-off cash optimization actions of EUR 52m in 2016.

Financial performance
In 2017, KPN commissioned an investor perception study, which
reflects its ongoing commitment to take on board the views of
the investor community. The study concluded that free cash
flow potential and shareholder returns are considered as
important investment appeals. Investors also indicated their
appreciation of KPN’s focused strategy and solid Board of
Management. However, the performance within the Business
segment and limited drivers for top-line growth weighed on
perceptions of KPN as an investment and while investors
value shareholder returns, some also called for a less geared
balance sheet.
Note: All KPN Group figures presented are based on KPN’s
continuing operations.

Adjusted revenues and other income The Netherlands were
2.5% (EUR 148m) lower y-on-y in 2017. Consumer Mobile
revenues decreased by 2.5% y-on-y due to the impact from
regulation. Residential revenues grew by 2.2% driven by an
increasing ARPU per household and ongoing base growth.
Mobile service revenue declined by 2.1%, mostly due to the
impact from regulation (roaming and MTA tariffs) and the
increased SIM-only inflow as a result of the introduction of new
handset credit legislation on 1 May 2017.
Adjusted revenues in Business declined by 4.8% y-on-y
in 2017 due to regulation, lower revenues from traditional
services and mobile price pressure. This was partly offset by

Revenue and other income The Netherlands
€ million

6,026

+9

+10

5,878

-111
-56

Adjusted
revenues 
2016

24

Consumer

Business

Wholesale

Other (incl.
eliminations)

Adjusted
revenues 
2017

Financial report

How we safeguard long-term value

Appendices

revenue growth from integrated solutions, IT related services
and IoT. In SME, the continued growth in multi play seats drove
multi play revenue growth (37%). Traditional fixed-only revenues
declined by 18% as the impact of ongoing rationalization and
migrations to integrated solutions was partly offset by price
adjustments to this portfolio. Single-play wireless revenues
were down 20% due to regulation and a declining mobile-only
customer base following migrations to KPN ÉÉN SME (Multi
play) and KPN ÉÉN LE (Customized solutions).

New services revenues increased 17% y-on-y in 2017, driven by
KPN’s leading position in the Dutch market for IoT.

Revenues from Customized solutions grew by 0.9% y-on-y,
supported by migrations from single-play wireless. Revenues from
Network & IT services declined by 1.0% y-on-y. Lower revenues
from network services were offset by growth in IT services,
such as hardware and workspace management.

The negative impact of incidentals on revenues in 2017
(EUR 2m) was due to the release of revenue-related provisions
in Wholesale. In 2016, the positive impact of incidentals
(EUR 26m) related to revenue-related provisions in Wholesale.

In Wholesale, adjusted revenues decreased by 7.6% y-on-y in 2017,
mainly due to lower regulated tariffs (MTA/FTA) and less
low-margin international traffic, partly offset by a positive net
intake of WBA and VULA services. Mobile Wholesale revenues
were impacted by competitive dynamics in the Dutch mobile
market leading to lower revenues from MVNOs.

EBITDA The Netherlands
€ million
40.0%

40.8%

2,411

+45

+11

2,398

IT/TI

Other
operating
expenses

Adjusted
EBITDA 2017

+30
+49
-148

Adjusted
EBITDA 2016

Revenues

Cost of goods
& services

Personnel
expenses

Adjusted EBITDA for The Netherlands decreased by 0.4%
(EUR 10m) y-on-y mainly as a result of roaming regulation.
Cost of goods and services were positively impacted by lower
subscriber acquisition and retention costs (SAC/SRC)
compared to 2016. This was partly offset by higher roaming
costs, higher content costs in Consumer and increased
hardware and IT licenses in Business. Lower SAC/SRC was
mainly the result of handset credit legislation effective on 1 May
2017. Following this introduction, KPN has witnessed increasing
SIM-only inflow, higher upfront payments for handsets, and a
shift towards less expensive handsets.
The Simplification program is delivering significant quality
improvements and structural savings in personnel expenses and
IT/TI costs and other operating expenses. KPN’s targeted
household marketing approach, driven by smart analytics, has
resulted in fewer marketing expenses. Together with lower
costs for housing and facilities, these were the main drivers of
lower other operating expenses.

EBITDA for The Netherlands was impacted by restructuring costs
of EUR 76m (2016: EUR 41m). The net negative impact of
incidentals was EUR 25m (2016: EUR 46m net positive impact).
The adjusted EBITDA margin for The Netherlands increased to
40.8% (2016: 40.0%), supported by a rigorous cost focus in all
areas of the business.
Financial review iBasis
Adjusted revenues at iBasis decreased by 19% y-on-y in 2017
(including a 1.2% unfavorable currency effect), driven by lower
traffic and price pressure in the international wholesale voice
carrier market. The adjusted EBITDA margin in 2017 of 3.4%
was somewhat higher y-on-y (2016: 2.7%).
For information on financial and operational performance per
segment, see Note 3 to the Financial Statements.

25

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create
The value we create for our
stakeholders

The value we create for our stakeholders
Financial review KPN Group

Solid financial position

Operating profit
Group operating profit (EBIT) was in line with 2016 (-0.2%
y-on-y) at EUR 882m as lower EBITDA was largely offset by
lower depreciation and amortization charges.

Net debt to EBITDA
Net debt amounted to EUR 6.0bn at the end of 2017, which was
EUR 0.8bn lower compared to the end of 2016. The free cash
flow generated during the year and proceeds from the sale of
Telefónica Deutschland shares were partly offset by dividend
payments, the EUR 200m share buyback program and the EUR
67m coupon for the perpetual hybrid bond. At the end of 2017,
net debt to EBITDA was 2.5x (2016: 2.8x). This includes the
equity credit on the hybrid bonds representing 0.4x net debt to
EBITDA. The average coupon on senior bonds declined y-on-y
to 3.9% (2016: 4.1%).

Financial income and expenses
Net finance expenses decreased 42% in 2017 to EUR 241m.
This was mainly due to EUR 160m additional finance expenses
in Q3 2016 due to the bond tender and EUR 73m lower interest
costs on senior bonds in 2017 as a result of lower gross debt,
partly offset by EUR 40m lower dividends received on KPN’s
stake in Telefónica Deutschland in 2017 compared to 2016.
Income taxes
In 2017, KPN recognized a tax expense of EUR 157m (2016:
EUR 96m). KPN’s effective tax rate for 2017 is 24.5% (2016:
20.6%) mainly due to reversals related to previous years and
recognition of liquidation losses in 2016. KPN continues to
qualify as an innovative company and therefore benefits from
the innovation box tax regime, a facility under Dutch corporate
income tax law whereby profits attributable to innovation are
taxed at an effective rate of 5%. The effective tax rate is
expected to be approximately 23% in 2018-2019. See Note 8 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information
on KPN’s tax position.

Capital allocation and shareholder
remuneration

Net profit
Net profit for 2017 (continuing operations) increased by EUR
115m to EUR 485m, mainly driven by EUR 176m lower net
finance expenses in 2017. The profit for 2016 from discontinued
operations (EUR 430m) consisted mainly of the result on the
sale of BASE Company (EUR 369m).

KPN intends to grow its regular dividend in line with its FCF
growth profile. KPN intends to provide a sustainable and
growing regular dividend in line with its FCF growth profile.
KPN intends to pay a regular dividend per share of EUR 11ct in
respect of 2017, subject to Annual General Meeting (AGM) of
Shareholders’ approval. An interim dividend of EUR 3.7ct per
share was paid in August 2017. In respect of 2018, a regular
dividend per share of EUR 12ct is intended.

Capex
Capex came to EUR 1,139m in 2017, a decrease of EUR 54m
compared to 2016 (EUR 1,193m). Capital intensity is still
relatively high due to investment programs in hybrid access to
larger cities and business parks, and in capacity of the mobile
and core networks.

Free cash flow
Free cash flow (FCF) for 2017 was EUR 74m higher y-on-y at
EUR 815m. Excluding the EUR 70m dividend received from
Telefónica Deutschland (2016: EUR 110m), FCF for 2017 was
EUR 745m compared to EUR 683m in 2016 taking the EUR 52m
cash optimization actions for 2016 into account as well. The
increase was mainly driven by EUR 54m lower Capex and EUR
99m lower interest paid. This was partly offset by EUR 13m tax
paid in 2017 versus EUR 50m tax received in 2016.

26

Over the last years, KPN has invested significantly in its
network infrastructure, products and customers, resulting in
high-quality fixed and mobile networks and improved
customer satisfaction ratings across all segments. KPN will
continue to focus on improving the customer experience by
further investing in capacity, reliability and stability of its
integrated network. KPN generates FCF (after capital
expenditures), which forms the basis for its policy related to
regular dividends.

KPN remains committed to an investment-grade credit profile
and expects to utilize excess cash for operational and financial
flexibility, (small) in-country M&A and/or shareholder
remuneration. In 2017, KPN completed a EUR 200m share
buyback program. In May 2017, KPN received a dividend from
its stake in TEFD of EUR 70m for 2016, which KPN distributed
to KPN shareholders as a special interim cash dividend
(EUR 1.7ct per share). KPN intends to pass-through potential
dividend received from TEFD to its shareholders.

Outlook 2018 (continuing operations, IFRS15 compliant)
	Adjusted EBITDA in line with 2017;
	Capex ~EUR 1.1bn;
	Free cash flow (excluding TEFD dividend) growing; and
	Additional cash flow via dividend from stake in Telefónica
Deutschland.

Financial report

How we safeguard long-term value

Appendices

Tax

In 2017, the following main developments and projects were
relevant to KPN from a tax perspective:
	KPN concluded a new agreement (covering 2017-2020) with
the Dutch tax authorities on the impact of the new legislation
with regard to the innovation box regime;
	KPN lost a legal procedure against the Netherlands
Enterprise Agency (RVO) on the application of the WBSOfacility (Act for the Stimulation of Research & Development)
for 2013. The impact is limited since we did not yet take this
facility into account for the part subject to legal proceedings;
	KPN redefined its VAT control framework based on Reliable
Financial Reporting (RFR) principles; and
	KPN also organized a stakeholders’ dialogue, including NGOs,
on the topic of ‘gewoon eerlijk belasting betalen’ (fair taxation).

KPN’s Corporate Tax Department (CTD) is responsible for
KPN’s overall tax position and optimal use of subsidy
opportunities. KPN adheres to its tax strategy and policy
(see ir. kpn.com). In line with this strategy and policy, our Tax
Control Framework (TCF) is continuously monitored and
optimized. A cornerstone of the TCF is our long-lasting
covenant with the Dutch tax authorities to self-assess and
transparently discuss KPN’s current and potential future tax
issues. This covenant is based on mutual trust and transparency.

Cash taxes (€ million)

The following tax KPIs apply for 2017
Eff. tax rate
(ETR) 24.5%

VAT:
680 (58%)
670 (57%)

Wage tax:
293 (25%)
338 (29%)

Other:
10 (1%)
6 (1%)

Total tax:
1.163 (100%)
1,178 (100%)

Social
security:
114 (10%)
110 (9%)

Dividend Tax:
66 (6%)
54 (5%)

2017
2016

in 2016:
20.6%

Normalized
ETR 22.2%
EBIT
tax rate 23.0%

in 2016: 21.6%

Cash tax rate
(CTR) 2.0%

in 2016:
23.2%

in 2016:
-10.7%

The reported difference between the effective tax rate and the
cash tax rate is mainly caused by the use of available tax losses.
The reported amount of corporate income taxes paid relates to
taxable profits that could not be offset against these losses, e.g.
corporate income tax payable by entities not part of a tax
group. The EBIT tax rate is lower than the statutory rate mainly
due to the innovation box facility.

Tax overview for continuing operations per country
Profit before
tax excl.
Total
unrelated associates and
income¹ joint ventures

In € million
or FTE
NL
US
Other
Total 2017
Total 2016

Corporate
income
tax expense

Corporate
Effective income tax
tax rate cash flow

2017

6,157

650

-144

2016

6,524

499

2017

437

-2

2016

501

-20

-3

-15%

2017

2

-7

-1

-14%

2016

Corporate
cash tax
payable

Other tax
cash flow
mainly VAT
& payroll

Property
plant and Employees
equipment end of year

22%

-13

5

1,155

5,793

13,020

-92

18%

51

-1

1,171

5,949

13,265

-12

n.m.

1

7

7

17

203

–

1

7

20

209

-1

-1

1

1

52

5

-12

-1

-8%

-1

–

–

–

56

6,596
7,030

641
467

-157
-96

24.5%
20.6%

-13
50

11
–

1,163
1,178

5,811
5,969

13,275
13,530

1 Unrelated income is the total of revenues and (other) financial income..

27

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create
The value we create for our
stakeholders

The value we create for our stakeholders
Forward-looking
Through offset of available losses in the Netherlands, KPN expects
to pay limited amounts of income tax for the coming years. Based
on current projections, KPN expects to fully utilize its realized
and unrealized losses well within the expiration limits. KPN will
continue to extend and optimize its VAT control framework.

Regulation affects our business
KPN is subject to sector-specific regulation and enforcement
thereof by regulatory authorities, such as the Netherlands
Authority for Consumers and Markets (ACM). As described in
the chapter ‘Compliance & risk’, KPN’s Risk Management and
Control System is designed to minimize the risk of non-compliance
with regulation.
European developments; the Digital Single Market strategy
Regulation of the electronic communications markets is largely
based on European legislation. The EU’s roaming and open
internet access regulations are directly applicable in all member
states. The application of the regulation of operators with
significant market power is done nationally, but under
coordination of the European Commission. This still affects
KPN in some fixed markets and on fixed and mobile call
termination services. Licensing regimes for frequencies are
based on national law. Increasingly, also other regulation (such
as privacy law and content-related law) has an impact.
Both the European Parliament and the European Council have
approved amended versions of the draft ‘European Electronic
Communications Code’ in 2017. These institutions are now
negotiating the amended proposals and are expected to reach
agreement by July 2018 at the earliest. Implementation of the
new rules in national law should not be expected earlier than
mid-2020.
International roaming on mobile networks
Since 15 June 2017 national retail tariffs must be applied for
roaming within the EU/EEA. Only for traffic exceeding defined
‘fair use’ criteria, or after approval of the National Regulatory
Authority when national tariffs are not sustainable with
‘roam-like-home’, surcharges not exceeding the regulated
wholesale rates are allowed. The roaming regulation will expire
on 30 June 2022 and only changes if amended or replaced
prior to that date.
Market analysis decisions in the Netherlands
The decision related to the markets for unbundled access to
fixed networks came into effect on 1 January 2016. On these
markets (virtual) access obligations, tariff regulation (partly by
safety caps based on the 2011 tariff levels) and margin squeeze
tests were imposed on these markets. Upon completion of the
VodafoneZiggo joint venture, ACM started a review of this
decision. A draft for a new decision is expected to be published
in Q1 2018 for national consultation. A decision by the ACM
regulating fixed voice telephony markets came into effect on 1

28

March 2017, limiting the market regulation for dual calls
(ISDN2). A decision to regulate call termination tariffs for
fixed and mobile based on the ‘pure BULRIC’ approach
recommended by the European Commission came into effect
on 12 July 2017. Appeals regarding the tariff regulation in this
decision were refused by the court.
Spectrum licenses
The preparations for an auction in 2019 of the 700, 1400 (Lband)
and 2100 MHz bands have started, but no formal decisions on
the auction procedure are available yet. Although the 3.5GHz
band at European level is seen as the primary band for 5G, in
the Netherlands it is not clear when this band will be available
for 5G use. Severe restrictions on the use of this spectrum
apply to prevent interference with the use of this band by an
earth satellite station of the Dutch Ministry of Defense.
Act on Financial Supervision
The Dutch Supreme Court ruled in 2014 that ‘all-in’ mobile
telephone subscriptions that include a monthly payment for a
mobile handset are a form of consumer credit, thus ruled by the
Dutch Financial Supervision Act (Wft). As of 1 January 2017 all
KPN’s marketing communication on handset-credit complied
with the Act. The remaining set of measures came into effect
on 1 May 2017, This relates to: 1) a separate credit-contract, 2)
a check on income and financial obligations for credits above
EUR 250 and 3) registration with the Bureau on Credit
Registration (BKR) for credits above EUR 250. KPN does not
charge any interest for these propositions, when including
handset credit. All sales people (in shops, call centers and
indirect channels) were trained and tested on their knowledge
of these specific rules, thus ensuring that credits are contracted
responsibly and the customer’s interest is put first.

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Appendices

The value we create for society

Innovation
Customer demand and our ambition to simplify and grow are the main drivers for
innovation. We apply proven technologies in existing products and services and are
partnering with startups and scale-ups to promote innovation through a wealth of
events. Our innovations make people more comfortable in their homes, increase
healthcare efficiency and make cities smarter.
KPI
Revenues from new services
M2M subscribers (#SIMs)

We continuously apply proven technologies to existing and
new products and services to fulfill changing customer needs.
We do this both in-house and, increasingly, by partnering with
innovative technology companies to turn promising ideas into
commercial products and services that will improve lives. As
well as creating value for society, innovation improves customer
satisfaction and loyalty.

Open innovation
We partner with others to accelerate innovation, mainly through
our investment fund KPN Ventures and at KPN's New Business
division. This collaborative approach brings mutual benefits:
we benefit from the drive and creativity of entrepreneurial
talent and learn from the speed at which startups can experiment,
while they benefit from KPN’s industry expertise, professional
network and our channels to customers.
We organize a wealth of events promoting innovation, such as
meetings where startups and scale-ups pitch their innovations,
speed-dating, co-creation workshops, expert sessions and
hackathons. Last year we launched the KPN Startup Circus,
a large international event where 30 startups from 11 countries
presented their innovations to KPN experts and executives.
We were recognized as one of the only 12 European ‘Corporate
Startup Stars’ by the European Commission' Startup Europe
Partnership (SEP). Furthermore, KPN received one of the three
'Corporate Startup Investment Awards’. Our EUR 70 million
corporate venture capital fund KPN ventures, invests in
strategically related startups in areas such as smart homes,
cybersecurity, digital healthcare, data & analytics applications,
over-the-top services and cloud computing. Since its start in

Result 2017

Result 2016

€ 134m € 115m
~3.6m ~2.5m
2015, it has invested in 13 European technology companies
both directly and indirectly through its fund-in-fund
investments in the CottonWood Technology Fund and Keen
Venture Partners. In addition, KPN has a Startup Liaison team
that scouts both national and international innovative
technology companies and works as an entry point for startups
and scale-ups to connect with KPN and to find the right
contacts within the KPN organization to discuss a potential
cooperation. In 2017, more than 80 deals were made with
startups from pilot-projects, investments by KPN Ventures,
co-creating propositions, distribution partnerships or providing
infra/data or security solutions by KPN.
We foster an open culture and an agile way of working. We
constantly challenge ourselves to come up with new ideas
to create new value for customers and improve our way of
working. Like the startups we work with, our approach is to
think big, but keep experiments small and learn quickly.
KPN Ventures
KPN Ventures accelerates outside-in innovation by investing
in promising startups and scale-ups. We use our expertise to
support and stimulate their growth, and learn from ambitious
young companies. In 2017, the KPN Ventures team executed
five direct investments, including in the German company
Personal MedSystems, developer of the CardioSecur mobile
ECG technology, Rotterdam-based Sensara, which offers a
monitoring solution for elderly care, German smart intercom
maker Nello and the Belgium-headquartered data science
company Sentiance.
We indirectly invested in sustainable cooling technology
company SoundEnergy, via the Cottonwood Technology Fund,
and participated in two follow-up investments in portfolio
companies Actility and EclecticIQ.

29

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create
The value we create for society

The value we create for society
KPN Technology Labs
Our KPN Technology Labs bring together multidisciplinary
teams of KPN experts, customers, developers and suppliers
to turn ideas into concrete products and services. The labs
combine technical innovations with existing network
infrastructures, and develop new technologies. We then test
these innovations with the general public in our field labs,
which we also prefer to set up with partners. Examples of
innovations that are the result of the KPN Technology Labs
include LoRa and voice over WiFi. We are currently testing
5G internet.

Thanks to the LoRa network of KPN they can be monitored
and managed from a distance. Another innovation example
is our partnership with the Dutch army to create MilSenz,
a sensor that registers movement in war zones or potential
war zones. This sensor, developed in a period of just two
months, was shortlisted for the Digital Transformation of the
Year award at the Computable Awards 2017, and has sparked
interest from other sectors where surveillance plays a role.

KPN New Business
KPN New Business creates value for our consumers and
business customers by developing, launching and growing a
new portfolio. Cubes is KPN New Business’ incubator for the
development and launch phases. Cubes works using a threestep model: seeking the right opportunities; qualifying the
value for customers, partners and KPN; and finally developing
the technology and the business model together with
customers. Projects that have been incubated successfully are
subsequently moved to the growth phase at this stage.
Technologies that successfully make it through all these steps
then enter the growth phase. The most important New
Business innovations developed together with partners in
2017 were:

 ybersecurity: We expanded our cybersecurity portfolio with
C
the complementary acquisitions of DearBytes and QSight IT,
which added high-quality threat prevention and detection
capabilities to our service offering to various market segments.

I nternet of Things (IoT): We have expanded our state-ofthe-art IoT connectivity with KPN Things to a scalable total
solution. KPN Things helps clients to quickly and easily implement
IoT solutions and get the most out of data generated by IoT,
enabling them to monetize its value in the fastest and best
way possible. These data-driven solutions offer customers
the full combination of data generation, aggregation and
analytics, based on IoT and other data sources.
We have partnered with Luxemburg-based B Medical
Systems to monitor vaccine conditions during transport to
ensure a stable quality of the vaccines from the manufacturer
to the patients. We also added geolocation to our LoRa
offering, enabling customers to easily and efficiently track
and trace all kind of assets - such as bicycles, containers and
machinery - based on the network’s capabilities.
Together with KPN, Medizon is working to make AED
cabinets smart. By linking sensors installed in the cabinets to
the LoRa network, Medizon can monitor the devices 24/7.
Thanks to this innovation in healthcare, Medizon can monitor
the status of AEDs much better, make sure that more AED’s
are operational, and prevent that community responders are
sent to the wrong AED cabinet, which helps to save lives.
DHL Express is piloting the DHL Cubicycle, a customized
cargo bicycle which can carry a container with a load of up
to 125 kg (one cubic meter in volume) for inner-city deliveries.

30

Last year, the IoT academy reached 3,850 people in 260
companies and trained 160 developers in LoRa technology.

Also, our operational technology monitoring service enables
us to service Industry and Utilities clients, and it positions us
as a future service provider for IoT security monitoring in a
market that is yet to be established.
 igital Identity and Transactions (DIT): We see an
D
increasing demand for digital identity and transaction
services, driven by the digitalization of the society and the
continuous growth of e-commerce. Last year we acquired
payment service provider capabilities and are now offering
payment solutions to customers. Combining these capabilities
with our existing identity portfolio is the start of a broad suit of
DIT services that will help clients gain trust in digital trade
relationships, facilitate financial transactions and enable the
exchange of value in the digital age.
S mart Cities: Our nationwide IoT network (LoRa, 2G, 3G and
4G) is stimulating smart innovations for cities as we connect
people, machines and objects to generate data. Smart
applications can then help improve traffic flow, reduce the
cost of refuse collection, guide motorists to empty parking
spots and improve air quality – all of which makes cities more
attractive places to live and work.
KPN is working with the city of Amsterdam on projects
including smart street lighting. Our data platform and
connectivity are contributing to intelligent projects. These
include a smart energy solution, in which energy is exchanged
between solar panels, charging stations for electric vehicles
and the grid, and smart parking solutions in the city of
Rotterdam.
e Health: Our eHealth applications use technology to help
keep healthcare affordable and accessible for patients and
healthcare providers, making patients safer and healthcare
more efficient. Our eHealth solutions include cardiology tool
Hartritme Diagnostiek, digital workplace Werkplek voor de
Zorg, and ZorgCloud, which healthcare providers use to work
and exchange information in a secure digital environment.

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Appendices

- Vitaal Thuis: We introduced KPN Vitaal Thuis, a lifestyle
monitoring app that helps carers trace the activity of elderly
people living alone. eHealth company Sensara has
developed a sensor solution that tracks activity, signals
changes in behavior and informs carers via an app if there
are any deviations from normal patterns. This extends the
period elderly people can live independently and safely in
their own homes, and provides ease and reassurance.
S martLife: With KPN SmartLife, we offer a series of smart
connected home services through a single app. We are
continuously experimenting with new devices, partners and
propositions to find the right value for our customers. As
more and more customers grow familiar with connected
devices in and around their homes, we believe this innovation
helps make people feel more comfortable and safer in their
daily lives.
 he New Way of Living and Working (NWLW): Technology
T
is having an impact on the way we are working, on the
content of work and makes green working possible. In
previous years we focused on enabling the NWLW of our
employees by shifting the attention from steering on
attendance towards steering on outcome. This resulted in
an average participation of 77% of KPN employees. The
percentage of employees who feel they can work according
the NWLW has unexpectedly declined.
A possible reason can be that employees who work in Agile
teams, which often requires physical participation, have the
impression that it replaces the NWLW. The NWLW affected
the way the office is used. We introduced hubs; attractive
offices at key locations in the Netherlands. In 2017, we also
started to implement new office software which improved
collaboration at a distance. There is still much to win if we
work on integrated solutions in a joint effort with our IT,
HR and Real Estate Services (RES). KPN therefore focuses
more on the use of technology to reduce commuting and
unnecessary traveling between hubs by making new
collaboration tools available and by stimulating the use
of public transportation. We also continue to inspire our
customers to innovate their way of working with the latest
technologies.
Last year, we initiated an impact study on the NWLW. In 2017,
we evaluated the outcomes and the method used and started
an update of the calculations.

31

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create
The value we create for society

The value we create for society

Reliability
We want everyone to enjoy the benefits of connectivity without having to worry
about being hacked or having their privacy violated. As the communication devices
and data systems our customers use become increasingly interconnected and
sophisticated, so do the threats to cybersecurity and privacy. This means we
continuously monitor the security landscape to ensure we protect not only ourselves
and our customers, but also society as a whole.
KPI
% of customers helped (within eight hours) who were unintentionally infected by malware
% of Dutch people that believe their data is safe with KPN

Privacy
Customers must be able to trust us to handle their data with
great care, always with their interests at heart. The proliferation
of devices collecting data makes it imperative that people’s
personal information is kept safe. Our customers rightly expect
this of us and it is a responsibility we take very earnestly. In
2017, 70% of customers said they believe their information is
safe with KPN (2016: 70%).
GDPR
In 2017, we stepped up our preparations for the introduction of
the Europe-wide General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
This law, which will take effect on 25 May 2018, imposes much
stricter requirements on the way companies process data and
use and store customer information. Under GDPR, for example,
the onus will be on KPN to prove we are always in control with
regard to data protection.
We are in the process of setting up a data processing register
– one of the main GDPR requirements. This registry will log
where and which personal data are being processed, for what
purposes, This will help us gain a better overview and control of
data processing and associated privacy controls.
KPN’s GDPR implementation program is led by a multi­
disciplinary team headed by our Privacy Office. The team
includes experts in compliance and governance, commercial
use of data, technology, program and project management and
key business owners.

32

Result 2017

Result 2016

99%
70%

96%
70%

Safeguarding privacy by design
It is important that employees are aware of privacy rules. All KPN
employees are required to complete our compliance and
integrity e-learning Spot On, part of which covers privacy. We plan
to introduce a more specific privacy training in 2018. All new
products must safeguard users’ privacy by design. Last year,
we developed tooling for and began testing what we call a
privacy impact assessment. This is a questionnaire for KPN
employees who wish to develop new products or processes
involving personal data, or adapt the use of an existing product
or process. This will become a compulsory step in KPN’s
change management process, ensuring KPN staff is sufficiently
aware of the privacy impact in everything they do. This should
be fully implemented by 25 May 2018.
Lawful intercept
We respect our customers’ right to privacy. At the same time,
we are legally obliged to disclose certain information, initially
obtained by intercept, to national investigation agencies. Our
infrastructure must facilitate this and we must cooperate with law
enforcement agencies as specified in the Telecommunications Act.
We treat this obligation seriously. A liaison office is available
24/7 to facilitate interaction with law enforcement for all KPN
brands. We assess incoming warrants and carry out various
checks to filter out any uncertainties. If we discover any
discrepancies, we reject the warrant, inform the agency
involved and follow the relevant procedures. In 2017, a
mismatch was found in 1.4% of the warrants received. Of the
interception orders 99.5% concerned telephone numbers,
0.1% related to email addresses and in 0.4% of the cases we
were ordered to intercept IP addresses.

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Simpler privacy statement
In line with our KPN strategic goal to simplify, we started
streamlining our overview of how we process customer data.
In 2018, we intend to simplify our privacy statements to make it
clearer to customers how KPN uses different types of data.
Looking forward, we plan to make a one-minute subtitled film
about privacy at KPN and will also make a braille version of our
privacy statement available.

Security
Our security policy is based on the security life cycle concept:
prevent, detect, respond and verify. We have a strategy and
policy team for prevention, a REDteam of ethical hackers to
proactively detect, a Computer Emergency Response Team
(CERT) to respond, and a team of senior security officers to
verify and implement security measures. Our Security
Operations Center (SOC) and CERT monitor our systems and
networks 24/7 and provide rapid response to resolve any
vulnerabilities detected.
Revised policy
Since our security policy was first launched in 2013 it has been
updated every quarter, becoming more detailed. After four
years of incremental changes, we thoroughly updated our
security policy in 2017. Following our own review and feedback
from KPN stakeholders, we relaunched it internally last year.
Enhancing security for our customers
We launched a pilot in 2017 to help our customers to better
defend themselves against Border Gateway Protocol (BGP)
anomalies. An anomaly typically occurs when other parties,
such as criminals, hijack BGP traffic. By redirecting BGP traffic,
they can harm other companies. Research is required to
quantify this problem, so we initiated the pilot to monitor BGP
traffic to seek anomalies globally and analyze them so we can
identify the attacks. This should enable us and our customers
to act at a very early stage to counter a BGP attack. The pilot is
scheduled to finish in 2018.
In 2016, we began securing KPN’s email system to protect
customers from fraudulent emails. During this project, which
was completed in 2017, we set up a new mail platform, reducing
spam and phishing emails coming from KPN.com domains.
We also enhanced network security by strengthening our
system for vulnerability management.
Strengthening our proactive approach
We strengthened our capabilities to be more proactive, setting
up CISO Lab and a new R&D unit to develop security solutions
currently unavailable on the market. In 2017, CISO Labs focused
on the secure transfer of large files. We incorporated threat
hunting in our threat intelligence process and fine-tuned our
threat intelligence reporting.

Appendices

We believe our proactive approach to security contributed to
safeguarding our system from potential harm during the
WannaCry ransomware attack in May 2017. This attack caused
major damage to many organizations across the world, but did
not affect our systems.
How we enhance security for society
At KPN, we share our knowledge with the outside world to help
improve security in society. Our experts speak at security
conferences around the globe to share the insights and results of
our work. Our Chief Information Security Officer is a faculty
member of Singularity University, a Silicon Valley think-tank
that offers educational programs and acts as a business
incubator. Last year, we continued our efforts to share security
and continuity insights with the wider public during our Guest
Hacker programs, ensuring insights from inspiring security
speakers become widely available. In addition, 2017 was the
fifth consecutive year KPN was the main partner for the Dutch
Alert Online campaign.
We continued our work on the EU Steering Committee in
Quantum Technologies, which is part of the EUR 1 billion EU
flagship program to address, amongst others, security issues
related to quantum computer technologies.
Together with Cisco and McAfee, we launched Cyber Central in
2017. Cyber Central is a forum that helps customers better
understand and address cybersecurity issues. We hosted a
‘Girlsday’, where we introduced girls aged 10-15 to technology.
This is part of the JetNet program aimed at interesting more girls
in technical education. We also continued to organize activities
for high school students to teach them basic security skills.
Detecting and resolving security breaches
Last October, Belgian investigators reported a vulnerability in
the security protocol (WPA2) used for WiFi. In cooperation with
the Netherlands’ National Cyber Security Center (NCSC) and
other industry players, Dutch telecom and internet providers
investigated the impact on the use of WiFi. Research showed that
routers provided by KPN to its customers are not vulnerable to
this and have the latest update.
In 2017, 19,921 processed virus notifications were detected
based on information from trusted partners. In 98.8% of cases,
our KPN Abuse team could act on information within eight
hours to help customers infected by malware, exceeding our
98% target.
For 2018, we plan to continue our efforts to enhance security,
working on a list of 11 IT security priorities with a particular
focus on aspects such as implementing endpoint protection on
KPN servers.

33

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create
The value we create for society

The value we create for society

Sustainability
In 2017, our operational excellence programs led to a saving of EUR 2m, partly due to
the energy reduction activities in our networks and fuel savings of our leased cars.
According to DJSI and CDP, we are a world leader in our industry that takes corporate
actions on climate change. In addition, we have started a program to become a
virtually circular company by 2025. In this bold ambition our suppliers play a key role.
In a sustainable society, everybody can take part. We deploy our services to connect
all people, even when contact is not self-evident.
KPI
Energy savings by customers as % of KPN Group energy usage
% reduction of energy consumption KPN Group compared with 2010
% realized improvements on corrective action plans
Number of suppliers that signed the circular manifesto
# of elderly facilitated to live independently
% chronically ill children provided with a KPN Klasgenoot (#)

Environmental performance

Result 2017

Result 2016

60%
24%
82%
7
11,466
(1,109) 100%

54%
20%
77%
Scope and targets
2017 / 2025 defined

11,371
(978) 100%

period. This is better then our target for 2017, due to additional
energy savings in our networks, data centers, offices and cars.

To respond to increasing customer expectations and be
prepared for stricter legislation around climate change, we
have continued our efforts, focusing not only on CO₂e
(equivalent) reduction, but also on energy reduction. Our total
energy reduction since 2010 is 24%, even though the volume of
our ICT services has almost increased tenfold in the same

KPN has been climate neutral since 2015. If we had not used
green energy, our gross location-based CO₂e emissions would
have been 335kTon CO₂e. To be climate neutral we use 100%
green electricity generated by local wind farms and biomass
plants. Other CO₂ emissions (15%) due to gasoline and petrol

CO₂e-emissions own operations Scope 1 and 2 (in kTon)¹
Gross CO₂e Location based

Net CO₂e Market based

2010 base year

2016

2017

2010 Base Year

2016

2017

Scope 1 NL

59

34

33

59

0

0

Scope 2 NL

345

314

300

79

0

0

Total NL

405

348

333

139

0

0

Total KPN Group

430

351

335

164

0

0

1 Underlying energy data are disclosed in Appendix 6.

34

Financial report

How we safeguard long-term value

(cars and emergency power) are compensated with Gold
Standard projects and forest compensation projects.
Since 2014, we have measured and reported the CO₂e emissions
in our supply chain. To be able to report on real figures, instead
of using a model, we discussed emissions in the chain with some
of our suppliers. Based on these real figures we defined projects
to reduce the CO₂e in the chain in the future.
Making KPN more circular
KPN understands that a circular economy is more than just
recycling resources. We share the responsibility for migrating to
renewable and finite resources with our suppliers and
customers and are aware that we can make an important
impact on society. Given that responsibility, we started a
program to further integrate circular economy within KPN to
reach our ambition of having close to 100% circular operations
by 2025. This is in line with the Dutch government’s ambition to
reduce raw material use by 50% by 2030. Our implementation
strategy will include KPIs and a monitoring dashboard to
support reaching our ambitions. Developing the roadmap is
also included. Already 53% of our equipment and materials are
currently reused or recycled.
We reached one of the first milestones of this program in 2017,
when we signed our circular manifesto with seven of our
strategic suppliers in networking and office equipment.
This aims to achieve circular results in an ecosystem by
adjusting product design, for example using recycled covers
and recycled scarce materials. We intend to sign the circular
manifesto with at least another eight suppliers in 2018.

Appendices

“KPN is committed to the principles of a
circular economy, which emphasize recycling
and longer product lifespans”
The International Telecommunication Union (ITU). is preparing
a guideline for the ICT industry based on KPN’s circular manifesto.
Networks and datacenters
Our fixed and mobile networks use the majority of our
electricity consumption (76%). By removing or replacing old
equipment with energy-efficient models and improving cooling,
we saved 30 GWh in 2017, which is 4% of our network and data
center energy consumption. This more than compensates for
the additional energy usage due to the network expansions
and improved quality and speed of fixed and mobile network.
Our data centers are already energy efficient, so it becomes
more difficult to realize large improvements. In total, the energy
efficiency has increased by 15% compared to 2010, so we have
not completely met our target of 15.5%. By using more outside
air for cooling instead of water we reduced both energy and
water consumption. To realize negative CO₂e emissions we are
exploring ways to reuse waste heat. We are working on
exchanging warm and cold temperature in a ring in Aalsmeer
with a local school, an agricultural farm and a swimming pool.
Together with the city of Almere, we are exploring the
possibilities of bringing district heating to the newly built
Nobelhorst neighbourhood in Almere, using the heat from the
NL|DC datacenter.

Our strategy to become a circular company

Reduce: Use of virgin materials
Virtualization
Dematerialization
Reused products
Recycled/biobased materials

Extend: Use products
longer and better
Lifespan extension
Rates of utilization

Recycle: High-end second life
of products and materials
Reuse
Recycling
Reduce incineration and landfill

35

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create
The value we create for society

The value we create for society
For 2018, we aim to reduce our Power Usage Efficiency (PUE)
by 15.5% compared to 2010. A part of our data center services is
related to colocation, which is where we rent out space for our
customers to place their own ICT. The way our customers fill
their space with ICT equipment influences KPN’s PUE. Data
centers used for hosting services can be more energy efficient
as we can influence the ICT ourselves and the PUE.
Energy consumption compared to data communication
Title
growth
In petajoules
In
petajoules
4.0

1,200%

3.2

958
692

2.4
439

1.6

263

0.8
27

0

79

159

960%
720%
480%

KPN continues to support the sustainable mobile phone
Fairphone, which now also allows for the camera to be updated
separately. We also offer refurbished phones via our Telfort
brand. We provide smartphones that have more recycled
content and a more circular design, which will enable circularity
for our consumers. We also work with international lobby
groups, such as the GSMA, ITU and GeSI, to try to influence
equipment suppliers to make their devices more sustainable,
better designed for the circular economy and easier to recycle.
We improved the energy efficiency of the modems and set-top
boxes our customers use for our services. Although the
number of devices increased, the CO₂e emissions reduced.

240%
0

2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 2030

Cars
Data centers
Networks
Datacommunication growth (%)

In the future, we want all additions to our networks and data
centers to be fully circular. Data transport will continue to
increase and we aim to accommodate this more efficiently by
migrating to cloud solutions and network function
virtualisation. Some routers and switches can be reused in our
networks, as well as metal server racks in our data centers. We
are also able to upgrade our fixed infrastructure to enable high
bandwidths without having to deploy new materials like fiber.
The idea behind the circular manifesto, is that the equipment
we buy from our suppliers is designed in such a way that they
can easily be separated in reusable parts or recyclable
materials. Gaining the knowledge of which plastics can be
recycled or separated is key to achieve that objective. We use
certified partners to improve waste treatment and based on the
information provided decrease the usage of virgin materials in
the future by using products/materials that have been designed
to be recycled (i.e. with a life cycle perspective in mind).
Products
Most client-related products are modems, TV set-top boxes or
mobile handsets. For modems and TV set-top boxes,
standardization is a great way to ensure reuse and upgrading.
We intensified our program for collection, reuse and recycling
for this category. In 2017, we collected about 85%, exceeding
our target to collect 80%. Our customers can choose to have
their mobile handsets repaired through our repair service or
insurance service, if they opted for this.

36

“Our environmental efforts are focused
on reducing our environmental footprint
despite exponential data growth”

With the approach advocated in our circular manifesto, we aim
to decrease the use of virgin materials in the products we buy
from our manufacturing partners.
Real estate
Our focus is on ensuring that the buildings we rent are flexible in
both function as well as lay-out. One thing we did to achieve
this was opt for a number of walls in Rotterdam that can be
easily placed and re-placed so that we can change the layout of
our offices. Besides flexibility, we aim for circularity in other parts
of our interior as well. A part of our square meters in use is
covered by carpet tiles with recycled content. In addition, part
of our furniture is reused or recycled.
We are also looking into BREAAM requirements for sustainable
offices. Our offices have saved 57% on energy compared to
2010 by optimizing workspace and implementing an energy
savings program. To improve circularity, we are introducing
usage optimization through a SmartBuilding concept in our
new corporate headoffice. We also recycle carpets and furniture
together with office suppliers.
Fleet
From 2025 onwards, we aim to only lease fossil fuel-free cars.
In the meantime, we will reduce the maximum CO₂e emissions
of our vehicles by switching to car models with cleaner engines
that emit less particulate matter. We exceeded our 2017 target
to reduce car fuels for our leased cars by 40% compared to
2010. We realized a 43% reduction. As part of the NWLW
program we encourage our employees to work at home and by
doing so reduce greenhouse gas emissions from commuting.
Given the higher availability of full electrical cars with a longer
range, for all employees entitled to a company lease car, it is
now possible to select a fully electrical vehicle.

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Our engineers took part in a pilot to use bikes in busy city
centers, instead of cars to reduce the exhaust of particulate
matter and CO₂. In addition, we leased two electric cars and
10 biogas cars to start transforming our fleet.
In 2017, we reached an inflow of 7% fossil fuel-free car in our
lease fleet for both employees and engineers.
Ambition for 2030 and beyond
KPN has joined the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTI).
Our CO₂e-reduction objectives were approved by SBTI which
means they are in line with the international climate goals of
the Paris Agreement. These targets not only cover our own
energy consumption, but also reduce the CO₂e emissions in the
supply chain both during production and the use phase of our
customers. We aim to remain climate neutral until at least 2050
and reduce KPN’s absolute energy consumption by 55% in
2030 compared to the 2010 baseline. This includes decreasing
energy consumption in our networks by 60% compared to
2010 and switching to 100% CO₂-neutral cars from 2025.

Appendices

of the fuel 46,000 cars use in a year. Additionally, our LoRa
network allows for energy-efficient IoT applications for our
customers such as traffic control for bridges and intelligent
waste bins and Smart City initiatives. We maintain our ambition
for 2020 to realize savings equal to >80% of KPN Group’s
energy use, based on our new services using IoT and LoRa.
For more information on our Smart City initiatives, see page 30.

close to

2025

100%
circular

We aim to reduce the emissions of our supply chain from
suppliers to customers by 20% in 2025 and by 50% in 2040
compared to 2014. To reduce our impact on materials, we aim
to be close to 100% circular by 2025.

0

The potential of ICT to reduce
environmental impact
ICT has a significant role to play in activities to combat climate
change and its global impact. According to the Global
e-Sustainability Initiative’s #SMARTer2030 report on the
Netherlands, ICT could contribute to a saving of 74 million tons
of CO₂e and 5.6 billion liters of fuel in the Netherlands by 2030.
As KPN’s own operations are climate-neutral, all our services
are low-carbon services. Moreover, our customers can reduce
their own energy consumption and CO₂e emissions by using our
services. By using our cloud services, video conferencing and
audio conferencing, for example, our business customers can
meet and collaborate online, reducing the need for office space
and the need to commute, which in turn lowers traffic and
therefore energy consumption, CO₂e emissions and particulate
matter.
By 2020, we want our services to help our customers to save
more energy than 80% of the energy consumption of KPN.
We measure this 'avoided' energy consumption by calculating
the impact on our consumer and business customers of
specific products and services (see Appendix 6, table 8). The
calculations are based on measured data, available statistics,
recognized studies and expert judgments. In 2017, we realized
60% savings, which exceeds our target of 56%. Using these
services helped our customers to save about EUR 70 million in
energy costs. The majority of these savings are due to reduced
car fuel consumption (40 million litres). This is the equivalent

CO₂ emissions
from new cars

2030

2040

-55%

energy use

?

-50%

CO₂ emissions
in the supply
chain

Figures and calculation methodology: Detailed environmental figures
including intensity figures, targets and avoided energy consumption by our
customers can be found in Appendix 6: Environmental figures. Calculation
methods are explained in Appendix 3. Overview of major KPI’s are shown in
Appendix 2.

37

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create
The value we create for society

The value we create for society
Sustainability throughout the supply chain
We work closely with our suppliers to improve the quality and
environmental friendliness of our equipment and products,
to save costs and to reduce the environmental footprint of our
activities. Our business partners share our commitment to a
sustainable future and adhere to international agreements,
laws and regulations related to good working practices.
In 2017, we continued our program to simplify our supply
chain and align the suppliers we work with, including startups,
entrepreneurs and smaller companies. This has contributed
to sustainable savings that are included in our run-rate
simplification savings. One area of procurement we are paying
close attention to is KPN’s transition into a more circular
business model. KPN’s goal is to be close to 100% circular in
2025, and to achieve this we need the support of our suppliers.
As part of this, we are looking at ways our suppliers can help
extend the lifespan of equipment and products and make them
more recyclable, and we stimulate them to use recycled
contents in their products.
In 2018, we will continue to encourage innovation and
proactively steer the business towards suppliers with inventive
and sustainable products and solutions that can improve our
own customer offering.
Our procurement process
Suppliers can have a direct impact on the extent to which we
can operate as a circular company. As such, we take their
environmental performance into account. Our procurement
process is based on a competitive comparison of suppliers and
applies economic, technical and CSR criteria to select suppliers.
To ensure compliance with our quality standards, all our
procurement staff attended a training session last year on
environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks and to
familiarize themselves with requirements set by our industry
organization Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC), as well as the
latest developments regarding circular criteria in procurement.
Our procurement process also includes an assessment of all
new contracted suppliers, classifying them based on the
potential social and environmental risk their operations,
products and services represent. We assess this risk based on
three parameters:
Geographical areas;
Spend; and
Potential environmental impact of a supplier’s operations,
products or services.
We identified 53 high-risk suppliers in 2017. High-risk suppliers are
audited by independent external auditors once every 2-4 years.
Last year, we also saw the introduction of a shorter
procurement process Proof of Concept procedure. Not only
does this support KPN’s innovation strategy, it allows startups

38

to demonstrate more quickly what their products and services
could offer KPN.
Sustainability initiatives
Working with our suppliers, we implemented the following
initiatives in 2017 to improve the sustainability of the supply chain:
Sustainable solution 1:
We replaced the full printed terms and conditions in the SIM
Packs we sell with a concise leaflet. This leaflet meets all legal
requirements, providing an outline of the terms and conditions
and referring readers to our website for a full version. By doing
this, the environmental savings for our SIM Pack KPN postpaid
CM were as follows:
Climate change (CO₂-Eq)

Down 50%

Total energy use (MJ-Eq)

Down 53%

Water use (ltr)

Down 61%

Land use (m2a)

Down 57 %

Sustainable solution 2:
We started refurbishing and reusing set-top boxes and V8
modems. Starting in 2017, our supplier Drake & Farrell changed
its repair process, refurbishing all set-top boxes of the types 2260
and 2952 and V8 modems submitted for repair, so they can be
reused. This increases their lifespan from five years to eight years.
As a result, we have cut the amount of waste and the need to
purchase new equipment. From January-December 2017,
24,450 of these types of set-top boxes were repaired for reuse.
Supplier audits
KPN encourages its suppliers to improve their environmental
footprint and their standards regarding health, safety, security
and working conditions. For more information on how we
seek to reduce CO₂ emissions and introduce a circular way
of working in the supply chain, see chapter Environmental
performance.
We promote safe and fair working conditions together with our
partners in JAC – an association of international telecom
operators that aims to verify, assess and develop corporate
social responsibility in the supply chain. JAC monitors suppliers
and conducts on-site audits to ensure they comply with JAC
supply chain guidelines.
In 2017, KPN worked together with JAC to audit 42% of our
high-risk Tier I, Tier II and Tier III suppliers, which was well
above our 35% target. We plan to increase audits in 2018 in
cooperation with JAC. From 2012-2017, 85% of our high-risk
suppliers were audited in the following countries: Argentina,
Brazil, China, Czech Republic, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Thailand
and Vietnam.

Financial report

How we safeguard long-term value

2012 - 2017

85%

2017

42%

Appendices

KPN
+
JAC

Corrective action plans
If audits show suppliers are non-compliant, a corrective action
plan (CAP) is drawn up to address the issues raised in the audit
report. The supplier’s management is responsible for reporting
improvements until they comply. In 2017, KPN's suppliers
closed 82% of all outstanding corrective actions related to
audits conducted in 2014, 2015 and 2016 (77% in 2016, 58% in
2015), which means we met our target. We aim to achieve 70%
of the improvements in CAPs in 2018.
CAPs set clear deadlines and we aim to close all corrective
actions within 12 months. Although all our suppliers are
committed to implement all CAPs, we have found that some
issues are hard to resolve within one year. In 2014-2016, 53% of
still unresolved issues concerned business ethics and
environment such as greenhouse gas emissions from energy
use. Whenever KPN is not comfortable with the submitted
evidence and improvements, we suggest conducting a re-audit.
Corrective Action Plans based on audits
conducted by KPN
2017

2016

2015

2014

Business ethics

11

7

19

18

Discrimination

1

–

–

4

Disciplinary practices

–

2

–

–

Environment

12

18

15

19

1

1

2

2

27

31

45

34

Labor

–

2

5

3

Unlawful labor

1

–

8

6

Wages & compensation

3

6

5

1

15

16

9

12

Other

1

–

–

–

Total

72

83

108

99

Freedom
Health & safety

Working hours

Mobile workers survey
In cooperation with JAC, KPN conducted a survey last year
among the employees of a supplier who manufactures mobile
devices. This gave KPN unfiltered feedback on the employees’
working conditions at the manufacturing site. The mobile
workers survey was conducted at the same time as the on-site
audit, allowing us to compare management’s answers with
those of individual employees at different levels in the
company. This survey provided a much fuller picture of how
employees experience their working conditions than an audit.
JAC event
In 2017, KPN hosted the annual JAC Seminar, a meeting where
JAC members, key partners and suppliers discussed how to raise
awareness of the trends and challenges regarding corporate
responsibility in the supply chain. Discussion topics included
how to promote a circular economy and capacity building.
Supplier Code of Conduct and human rights
In accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and
Human Rights, KPN is committed to respecting the 10 guiding
principles relating to freedom of expression, the protection of
human rights by states and the respect of human rights by
operators. In our Supplier Code of Conduct, which forms the
basis of our agreements with suppliers, we ask them to operate
in the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations.
We expect our suppliers to apply the Supplier Code of Conduct
in order to comply with all relevant laws, regulations and
standards in all of the countries in which they operate and to
go beyond compliance to applicable laws, drawing upon
internationally recognized standards, taking responsibility to
continually improve social and environmental conditions and
ethical behavior. We also expect our suppliers to ensure that
products supplied to KPN do not contain conflict minerals or
their derivatives.
We adapted our Supplier Code of Conduct last year to comply
with international standards, revising our commitment to work
through an innovative development in products and/or services
that offer environmental and social benefits, are low energy and
help reduce CO₂ emissions across the entire value chain.

39

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create
The value we create for society

The value we create for society
Social inclusion
KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds
In 2017, the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds (KPNMCF) celebrates
its tenth anniversary. Our corporate foundation connects
people in need of social contact, such as the elderly, people
with autism or chronically ill children. We use our KPN
technology and employees and make financial contributions to
several Dutch NGOs and social partners in order to connect
these vulnerable groups to society. In 2017, we received 1,883
voluntary contributions on many of our projects.
10th anniversary
On 21 September 2017, the KPNMCF kicked off its tenth
anniversary festivities by hosting a conference together with its
partner Coalitie Erbij on the growing issue of loneliness. About
350 people attended the conference in the auditorium of the
Rijksmuseum.
In 2017, the KPNMCF organized several events for socially
isolated people at the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam and in
Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam. The
foundation also organized a theatre tour with Willeke Alberti
that traveled to five theaters across the country.
Zilverlijn
We also continued to work with the National Foundation for the
Elderly on our Zilverlijn project, which tackles loneliness among
elderly people. Every week, KPN volunteers call lonely seniors.
They do this from the so called Zilverlijn bus, which stops at
several KPN offices for several days. All connections are made
with KPN techniques and tools.
KlasseContact
KlasseContact has been connecting chronically ill children to
their classrooms and school friends for over ten years. It is run
in partnership with the educational organization EDventure. In
2017, 1,109 children received and/or used the KPN Classmate
digital device. A successful communication campaign in 2017
for our KlasseContact program improved the awareness of the
KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds' most important project.
Papageno Foundation
In 2017, we started a new initiative with the Papageno Foundation,
which helps people with autism. Research has shown that
music therapy helps to build better connections with society,
so we are facilitating the design of an app and online platform
that allow these people to get music therapy through their
smartphones.
Social entrepreneurship and being a good employer
Many (governmental) customers add social criteria to their
contracts in order to stimulate the market for social impact.
KPN conforms to these criteria and has a strong intrinsic
motivation to include people with a distance to the labor
market. We stimulate both our customers and suppliers to
create such possibilities, too.
40

Including people in the labor market
Our training program for customer service professionals with a
relatively poor position in the labor market saw 100% of
trainees completing the program continue to graduate at MBO
level (secondary vocational training) in 2017. Within three
months, 60% of them found a job.. Our ambition to become a
circular company has a social impact as well. In processing
returned equipment, one of our suppliers will employ people
with poor job prospects, who will be dedicated to work for KPN.
Also, we mentor top students with a migration background to
help give them access to the labor market.
Including disabled and elderly people
We developed special remote controls with bigger, clear
buttons for the elderly and visually impaired customers. With
KPN Teletolk, we help deaf, speech-impaired and hearingimpaired people to communicate with each other and with people
with normal hearing.
Loneliness among the elderly is a major social problem and
partly due to the growing aging population. In order to reduce
loneliness among the elderly, KPN together with the National
Elderly Fund developed an app to engage elderly people. The
elderly and volunteers find each other through the app and
agree to meet. After less than four months, over 500 requests
were posted and 250 meetings took place between lonely
elderly people and volunteers. In 2018, KPN will further develop
the application in order to reduce the isolation for as many
elderly people as possible.
Including children by helping them to be safe online
We launched a campaign to help parents with children getting
their first smartphone. The campaign with the tagline ‘How do
I survive my first mobile?’ uses the site Eerstemobiel.nl to
educate young people on issues such as etiquette, social
pressure, bullying, privacy and the costs of a mobile phone.
TV channel Nickelodeon will run a six-part series to help
educate schoolchildren on the subject. By the end of 2017,
we discontinued the children’s app Mybee because there are
similar apps available with strong content and not enough
people were using it.
Including people who have difficulties fulfilling payment
obligations
KPN is a member of the coalition of creditors that is looking
for solutions to help the growing number of customers with
payment arrears and debts. We run a program for customers
that have difficulties affording our services and aim to facilitate
and promote good personal financial management among
these customers. Sometimes the comprehensibility of our
correspondence appeared to be an issue. In order to avoid
problems with low literacy, KPN uses language level B1 in the
letters that we send them.

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Appendices

Our long-term impact on society

KPN supports the SDGs
The value we create contributes to the realization of the United
Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for 2030. In
2017, we have reconsidered the relevance of the SDGs while
redefining our value creation model this year. By creating value
for our customers and society, KPN is committed to
contributing most to SDG 9 (Industry, innovation and
infrastructure), 11 (Sustainable cities and communities) and 12
(Responsible consumption and production). In 2018, we will
increase our efforts and further align the SDG sub-targets in to
our own KPIs to gain more insight in our contribution to the
SDGs.

SDG

Apart from our contribution to SDGs 9, 11 and 12 as explained in
the table below, our non-financial objectives and targets also
contribute to other SDGs, albeit in a less impactful way. In
Appendix 2: Overview and connectivity of non-financial
information, we show how our CSR targets and KPIs contribute
to the SDGs.
You can find more information on the SDGs and our activities
on corporate kpn.com/globalgoals. The numbers in the
graphics refer to the official SDG numbering and do not depict
KPN’s ranking.

Link to the value we
create

Our support

SDG goal

KPN strategic relevance

Build resilient
infrastructure,
promote
sustainable
industrialization
and foster
innovation.

To connect everyone in a reliable
way, we aim to make our ICT
infrastructure future proof. KPN
builds the infrastructure in a
continuous, iterative process with
help from suppliers, to keep up
with demand in bandwidth and
changing societal needs prompted
by digitalization.

 State-of-the-art
networks and ICT
infrastructure
Privacy
Security

We continuously innovate and upgrade the
capacity of our best-in-class integrated network
and ICT infrastructure. We invest and work to
strengthen our core network and fixed and
mobile network capacity and to safeguard
privacy and enhance security for society.

Make cities
inclusive, safe,
resilient and
sustainable.

To connect everyone in an
innovative way, we continuously
explore how our technology can
help address the themes and
challenges facing society today
and tomorrow.

Integrated products
and services
Innovation
State-of-the-art
networks and ICT
infrastructure
Social Inclusion

Our new technologies and digital solutions make
people more comfortable and safe in their
homes, prevent online fraud, increase the
efficiency of businesses and healthcare and
reduce traffic by facilitating the New Way of
Living and Working, make cities smarter and
cleaner, and connect ill children with classmates.

Ensure
sustainable
consumption
and production
patterns

To connect everyone in a
sustainable way, we are ambitious
to limit negative impact of our
(and our suppliers’ and
customers’) activities, products
and services on the climate and
the environment.

 nvironmental
E
performance
Sustainable suppliers

Our own operations are climate-neutral and all
our services are low-carbon services. Moreover,
our customers can reduce their own energy
consumption and CO₂ emissions by using our
services.
We have started a program to become a circular
company by 2025, influence our suppliers and
implement solutions for a more sustainable
supply chain.

41

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Corporate governance

Stable steering in a dynamic environment
The corporate governance framework of KPN is based on our strategy and in line with
the requirements of the Dutch Civil Code, the new Dutch Corporate Governance Code as
well as applicable securities laws. Furthermore, the company is governed by its Articles of
Association and internal procedures, such as the by-laws of the Board of Management
and the Supervisory Board.
Legal structure of the company
Royal KPN N.V. is a public limited liability company established
under the laws of the Netherlands, with ordinary shares listed
on Euronext Amsterdam. The Articles of Association of KPN
were last amended on 23 June 2016.
KPN has a two-tier management structure with a Board of
Management and a Supervisory Board. KPN qualifies as a
‘large company’ (structuurvennootschap) within the meaning
of the Dutch Civil Code and applies the relevant rules of Dutch
corporate law. The Board of Management is entrusted with
the management of the company. The Supervisory Board
oversees strategic and commercial policymaking by the Board
of Management and the way in which it manages and directs
KPN’s operations. In the performance of their duties, the
members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory
Board are guided by the interests of the company and the
enterprise connected therewith and take the relevant
stakeholder interests into account. The Board of Management
is accountable to the General Meeting of Shareholders in
accordance with Dutch legislation.
See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
details on KPN’s legal structure.

Shareholders
Share capital, listings and indices
KPN’s authorized share capital totals EUR 720m, divided into 9
billion ordinary shares of EUR 4ct each and 9 billion preference
shares B of EUR 4ct each. As of 31 December 2017, a total of
4,202,844,404 ordinary shares were outstanding.
Since 13 June 1994, KPN’s ordinary shares have been listed
on Euronext Amsterdam (ticker: KPN). KPN has a Level I ADR
program, which allows investors to trade KPN ADRs in the
United States on the Over-The-Counter market (ticker symbol:
KKPNY). KPN shares are included in a number of leading
indices, including: AEX, EURO STOXX Telecommunications
Index and STOXX Europe 600 Telecommunications Index.

42

General Meeting of Shareholders
The General Meeting of Shareholders holds all powers that
have not been granted to other company organs. It has the
authority to appoint members of the Supervisory Board upon
binding nomination by the Supervisory Board and to dismiss
the Supervisory Board. The General Meeting of Shareholders
is also entitled to adopt the Financial Statements, release the
members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board
from liability, determine the dividend, determine the
remuneration for members of the Supervisory Board and
approve the remuneration policy and share (option) plans for
the Board of Management. Furthermore, a number of decisions
are subject to the approval of the General Meeting of
Shareholders, including decisions entailing a significant change
in the identity or character of the company or its business and
various corporate matters such as proposals to amend the
Articles of Association of the company, to (de-) merge or to
dissolve the company, or to issue shares or reduce the issued
capital of the company.
Within four months from the end of every fiscal year, the Board
of Management prepares Financial Statements accompanied
by an Integrated Annual Report. The Financial Statements are
submitted to the Supervisory Board for approval. The
Supervisory Board subsequently submits the approved
Financial Statements for adoption to the AGM of Shareholders,
which is to be held within six months from the end of the fiscal
year. At the same time, the Board of Management submits the
approved Financial Statements to the Central Works Council
for information purposes. Adoption of the Financial Statements
does not automatically discharge the Board of Management or
the Supervisory Board from liability. This requires a separate
resolution by the General Meeting of Shareholders.
Other General Meetings of Shareholders are held as often as
the Supervisory Board or Board of Management deem
necessary. The Board of Management and the Supervisory
Board determine the agenda of the General Meetings of
Shareholders. Shareholders who individually or collectively
represent at least 1% of the issued capital or who, according to
the Official Price List of Euronext Amsterdam, represent at

How we safeguard long-term value
Corporate governance

Financial report

least a value of EUR 50m have the right to propose items for
the agenda. Every shareholder has the right to attend a
General Meeting of Shareholders in person or through written
proxy, to address the meeting and to exercise voting rights.
Obligations to disclose holdings
Pursuant to the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (Wft), legal
entities as well as natural persons must immediately notify the
Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) when a
shareholding reaches, exceeds or falls below certain thresholds
of the issued capital. The AFM incorporates these notifications
in the public register, which is available on its website. Read
more in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
the KPN shareholding as at 31 December 2017.
Please see ‘Composition of the boards’ starting on page 52, for
information on the composition of the Board of Management
and the Supervisory Board, insider transactions and share
ownership by the members of the Board of Management and
Supervisory Board.

Appendices

Purchase of shares in the company’s own capital and
issuance of new shares
With the general aim of flexibility in financing of the company,
the General Meeting of Shareholders authorized the Board of
Management to purchase shares in the company’s own capital
and decided to reduce the issued capital through cancellation
of own shares held by the company by a number determined
by the Board of Management.
The General Meeting of Shareholders furthermore designated
the Board of Management as the body authorized to issue
ordinary shares and to grant rights to subscribe for ordinary
shares, and to restrict or exclude statutory pre-emptive rights
of existing shareholders upon such issuance or granting of rights.
The above authorities and decisions are limited to a maximum
of 10% of the issued capital as of 12 April 2017, and are
applicable until 12 October 2018. Resolutions by the Board
of Management implementing the above are subject to the
approval of the Supervisory Board.

Shareholders

Shareholders appoint Supervisory
Board members upon nomination
of the Supervisory Board

Supervisory Board

Supervisory Board appoints
Board of Management members

Board of Management

43

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Corporate governance
Supervisory Board

Board of Management

The Supervisory Board oversees strategic and commercial
policymaking by the Board of Management and the way in
which it manages and directs KPN’s operations. Members of
the Supervisory Board are appointed by the General Meeting
of Shareholders upon binding nomination by the Supervisory
Board. The Central Works Council has an enhanced right to
recommend persons for nomination to the Supervisory Board
for up to one-third of its members. The Supervisory Board
must nominate the recommended persons unless it is of the
opinion that any such person would be unsuitable to fulfill the
duties of a Supervisory Board member, or such appointment
would cause the Supervisory Board to be improperly
constituted. Pursuant to a specific arrangement with América
Móvil, América Móvil has, as a major shareholder, a right to
designate one person to be nominated by the Supervisory
Board for appointment as a member of the Supervisory Board.

The Board of Management manages KPN’s strategic, commercial,
financial, CSR and organizational matters. The members of the
Board of Management are appointed and dismissed by the
Supervisory Board. The by-laws of the Board of Management
contain, among other things, rules regarding the members’
duties, powers, working methods and decision-making and
conflict handling. The by-laws are available on KPN’s website.

According to the Articles of Association, the Supervisory Board
must consist of at least five and not more than nine members.
Members of the Supervisory Board resign according to a
schedule set by the Supervisory Board. A member steps down
at the first AGM of Shareholders following its four-year term in
office. In accordance with the Dutch Corporate Governance
Code, members of the Supervisory Board can be reappointed
once, and thereafter for a maximum of two terms of two years,
stating reasons for such further reappointment.
The Supervisory Board has determined its ‘profile’, defining the
basic principles for its composition. All nominees for election to
the Supervisory Board must fit this profile. According to this
profile, the Supervisory Board must be composed in such a way
that members of the Supervisory Board are able to operate
independently of each other and of the Board of Management.
The profile is available on KPN’s website.
The by-laws of the Supervisory Board comprise, inter alia, rules
regarding the members’ duties, powers, working methods and
decision-making, what decisions by the Board of Management
it must approve, training and conflict handling. The by-laws are
available on KPN’s website.
Committees of the Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board has four committees: the Audit
Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominating and
Corporate Governance Committee, and the Strategy and the
Organization Committee. These committees assist the
Supervisory Board in its decision-making and report their
findings to the Supervisory Board. The tasks of these
committees are laid down in charters, which are available on
KPN’s website. Further information on the activities of the
committees in 2017 can be found in the section Supervisory
Board Report starting on page 58.

44

Corporate Social Responsibility governance
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is within KPN embedded
in accordance with the organizational structure. CSR themes at
KPN are defined and approved by the Board of Management
including ambitions and KPIs. Every CSR theme is assigned to
a theme owner, a member of the senior management who is
responsible for stakeholder dialogue, targets, progress and
results. Every five weeks, these theme owners together discuss
how to align initiatives and review progress against targets.
This Steering Committee is chaired by KPN’s CSR Manager,
who is responsible for the overall reporting, approach and
coherency. At least once a year the CEO attends this meeting.
Four times a year, CSR data is included in the overall set of
business KPIs that is reported to and discussed with the Board
of Management. The CSR Manager reports to the Director
Corporate Communication & CSR, who is responsible for the
communication to the Board of Management.
To ensure business commitment, managers of all departments
involved in one of the themes take part in the Steering
Committee for that CSR theme. Those committees, headed by
the theme owner, coordinate activities and report the CSR data.
In order to obtain sufficient outside reflection, an Advisory Board
consisting of external experts discusses CSR issues four times
a year, since 2011, with the KPN in Society Steering Committee.

Compliance with the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code
The Dutch Corporate Governance Code was fully revised and
then confirmed by the Dutch government in 2017. KPN actively
contributed to the debate leading to the revised code and
supports the principles of sound corporate governance as set
out therein, most notably the concept of long-term value
creation. In 2017, we aimed to implement all best practices of
the code, where these are applicable to us, and as far as not
already applied. We updated the by-laws and terms of
reference of our boards and committees, broadened our risk
management activities as further explained in the chapter
‘Compliance & risk’ and enhanced explanations on our
long-term value creation and culture, e.g. throughout this report.
We currently comply with almost all best practices, with the
exception of best practice 3.2.3 regarding severance payments,
where we agree to the best practice of a maximum severance
payment of one year’s base salary and have adopted that in

How we safeguard long-term value
Corporate governance

Financial report

our policies, but respect the existing agreement with Mr. van
der Post which includes a severance payment of 18 months
base salary during his first term of appointment (as was
accepted under the previous version of the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code).
An overview of all principles and best practices of the Dutch
Corporate Governance Code as well as KPN’s application
thereof in accordance with the ‘comply or explain’ principle is
available on KPN’s website.
Conflict of interest
The handling of conflicts of interest between the company
and members of the Board of Management or Supervisory
Board is governed by Dutch law, the relevant provisions of the
Dutch Corporate Governance Code and the by-laws of the
respective board.
A board member is required to immediately report any
(potential) conflict of interest that is of material significance to
the company and/or to the member concerned, to the
chairman of the Supervisory Board (or, in case of the chairman,
to the vice-chairman of the Supervisory Board). The relevant
board member shall not take part in discussions or decisionmaking on a subject in which he has a conflict of interest.
Decisions to enter into transactions in which there are conflicts
of interest with members of either board that are of material
significance to the company or such member require the
approval of the Supervisory Board.
There were no conflicts of interest in 2017.
For the In Control Statement and Responsibility Statement, see
page 51.

External auditor

Appendices

Foundation Preference Shares B KPN
(Stichting Preferente Aandelen B KPN)
KPN has granted a call option, which is not limited in time,
to the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN (the Foundation),
to acquire a number of preference shares B in KPN, which have
the same voting rights as ordinary shares, not exceeding the
total issued number of ordinary shares, minus one share and
minus any shares already issued to the Foundation. Upon
exercise of the call option, 25% of the nominal value of EUR 4ct
per Class B preference share needs to be paid by the
Foundation. According to its Articles of Association, the
statutory goal of the Foundation is “to protect KPN’s interests
(which includes the interests of stakeholders, such as
customers, shareholders and employees), by, among others,
protecting KPN from influences that may threaten the
continuity, independence and identity”. Consequently, in the
event of any circumstances where the company is subject to
influences as described above and taking public security
considerations into account, the board of the Foundation
may decide to exercise the call option, with a view to enabling
the company to determine its position in relation to the
circumstances as referred to above, and seek alternatives.
The board of the Foundation is of the opinion that under
normal circumstances it should not exercise its voting rights for
longer than a limited period.
The members of the board of the Foundation are J.H. Schraven
(Chairman), A.P. Aris, P. Wakkie, J.E.F. Klaassen and
F.J.G.M. Cremers. The Board of Management has concluded
that the board of the Foundation is independent from KPN in
accordance with parts c and d of the first subsection of article
5:71 of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act.
The views of the board of the Foundation, summarized above,
have been published on the Foundation’s website
(www.prefs-kpn.nl).

The external auditor is responsible for the audit of the financial
statements. The General Meeting of Shareholders appoints the
external auditor on a yearly basis, upon a proposal by the
Supervisory Board. The external auditor reports to the Board of
Management, the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board
to discuss findings pertaining to their agreed upon procedures
of the quarterly financial results and audit of the annual
financial results. The external auditor attends the AGM of
Shareholders to answer questions pertaining to the Combined
Independent Auditor’s Report as included in the Integrated
Annual Report. The Audit Committee approves every
engagement of the external auditor, after pre-approval by the
internal auditor, to ensure the external auditor’s independence.
All Audit Committee meetings were attended by the external
auditor. For the role of internal audit, see page 50.

45

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Compliance & risk

Compliance & risk
Deploying effective risk management is a key success factor for realizing our strategic
objectives as it provides reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss. For this
reason, KPN has implemented Internal Risk Management and Control Systems. The underlying
methodology is based on relevant criteria as set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Key components of the systems are
discussed in more detail below.
main risks that could hinder the realization of the strategic
objectives and defines and implements countermeasures to
mitigate such risks, taking into account the risk appetite.
Periodically, KPN’s performance, the top risks,
countermeasures, trends and incidents are reported to and
discussed with the Board of Management, which defines
further remedial actions if necessary.

Maintaining effective Internal Risk Management and Control
Systems require a continuous and iterative process involving
several steps. A strong risk culture and control environment
forms an important foundation of our control systems. After
setting the strategy, the Board of Management defines its
willingness to accept risks (risk appetite) in the pursuit of
strategic objectives. Management subsequently assesses the

1

2

Implement
strong
risk culture

5

Report
top risks,
trends and
incidents

1.Implement a strong risk culture
(control environment)
KPN strives for a business culture in which compliance and
integrity are self-evident for all employees. This is, among
others, realized by the following actions:
	In 2016, KPN issued a new Code of Conduct (the Code). The
Code applies to all KPN employees, including the Board of
Management, the Supervisory Board and temporary staff. It
describes how we work in an open, transparent, honest and
socially responsible way. We communicate the Code on our
corporate website (ir.kpn.com), our intranet, via a mandatory
e-learning for all our employees and via online learning
interventions (‘Workouts’) that target specific segments of
the population. We have a stringent approach to bribery and
corruption, fraud and all other forms of (illegal) misconduct,
including facilitation payments. The effectiveness of, and
compliance with, the Code is structurally assessed by:

46

3

Objective
and strategy
setting

Define risk
appetite

4

Assess risks
and countermeasures

Our Internal Risk Management and
Control Systems and methodology

- actively detecting and investigating any alleged
misconduct and taking appropriate disciplinary action if
misconduct is substantiated;
- monitoring that all staff (both internal and external)
completed the e-learning training for the Code; and by
- structural reporting of incidents to the Board of
Management and (at least annually) to the Supervisory
Board.
	To strengthen the tone at the top and in other management
levels, we conducted Fraud Risk Assessments, including a risk
assessment on attitude and behavior, and provided integrity
training upon request.
	To emphasize desired company culture and behavior –
and create awareness in the business – we developed a
communication and training program on compliance and
integrity subjects. Information that is important to share
because of (or due to a change in) applicable policies, laws or
regulations – or because of a necessity or demand in
business (risk or need based) – is shared by e-learning,
workshops or classroom training.

How we safeguard long-term value
Compliance & risk

Financial report

	The Business Control Framework (BCF) contains all corporate

policies and guidelines that are mandatory for all of KPN’s
segments and entities.
	KPN requires all employees and encourages external parties
to (anonymously) report any misconduct by KPN employees
(or suspicion thereof). Our whistleblower policy complies with
the Dutch Whistleblower Act.
	We periodically measure the state of organizational culture,
compliance and integrity as perceived by our employees and
report results as well as plans for improvement to top and
senior management, and initiate responses, if deemed
necessary.
	The Board of Management has a discretionary authority
to adapt the variable compensation of senior executives,
based on their demonstrable efforts in promoting a culture of
compliance and integrity.

2. Objective and strategy setting
KPN’s objectives and strategy are described on page 8. During
the objective and strategy setting process, top management
takes into account the company’s known risks and
opportunities, and its risk appetite (see next step). The
objectives and strategy are discussed with the Supervisory Board.

3. Define risk appetite
Pursuing any business objective inevitably leads to taking risks.
Risks can jeopardize achieving those objectives in various
ways. Each type of risk encountered is being dealt with in a
manner that matches the risk appetite of the Board of
Management. The risk appetite is the total residual impact of
risks that KPN is willing to accept in the pursuit of its (strategic)
objectives. The risk appetite per strategic objective or risk area
is determined annually by the Board of Management. These
risk areas comprise themes such as financial, operational,
strategic, compliance and (information) security themes. Overall,
KPN’s risk appetite did not materially change compared to
previous year.

Appendices

and systems as much as possible. We implement strict
policies to keep our customer data private, safe and secure.
	Financial risks: We strive for the right balance between a
prudent financing policy, sufficient investments in the
business and fair shareholder remuneration. KPN is
committed to an investment-grade credit profile. Read more
in Note 12 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
	Compliance risks: we are committed to full compliance with
relevant laws and regulations and have a zero tolerance
approach to bribery and corruption, fraud and all other forms
of (illegal) misconduct.
	Financial reporting risks: we have effective control
frameworks in place to minimize the risk of material
misstatements and errors in our financial statements.

4. Assess risks and countermeasures
KPN has implemented effective Internal Risk Management and
Control Systems to manage its main risks. The main part of
these systems comprise seven KPN Internal Control Systems,
that cover the most relevant risk areas for KPN, as summarized
in the table below:
Control System

Control system objective
Maintaining sufficient liquidity for
Liquidity Management and Financial
continuity purposes and maintaining
Framework
financing flexibility
Year Plan & Year Outlook

Creating shareholder value

Network Service Levels

Maintaining customer service
delivery levels

RFR GRIP Framework

Maintaining investor trust

Compliance Frameworks

Maintaining licenses to operate

Main non-financial KPIs

Measuring strategic success &
integrated reporting

IT Security and Continuity

Mitigating cyber threats

Risk areas with a low-risk appetite, and hence a low acceptable
residual risk require strong risk management and strong
internal controls. Risk areas with a high-risk appetite require
relatively less risk management and internal control effort.
Our main risks and our response to those risks are summarized
on page 49 of this Integrated Annual Report.

Strategic objectives
Every year, we assess the top risks at Group (top down
approach) and Segment level (bottom up) and, if necessary, we
implement countermeasures to mitigate them within the
defined risk appetite. We conducted risk assessment
workshops with our Commercial and Operations segments, as
well as with selected staff functions in the Corporate Center.

KPN has a prudent risk appetite, which can be described per
risk category as follows:
	Strategic risks: in the pursuit of our strategic objectives, KPN
is willing to accept reasonable risks in a responsible way,
taking into account our stakeholders’ interests.
	Operational risks: KPN is committed to a high quality of
customer service resulting in an increasing NPS. We aim to
limit the number of interruptions in our networks, services

The business objectives are detailed in a strategic business
plan. Every quarter, segments perform a ‘most likely’ forecast
four to six quarters ahead on their main financials and key
performance indicators (the rolling forecast). Segments update
main risks and opportunities, resulting in a bandwidth of
outcomes around expected performance. Each month,
segment management discusses their actual performance with
the Board of Management.
47

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Compliance & risk
Operational objectives
KPN has business continuity plans in place to safeguard the
continuity of services to customers and critical systems and
processes. To manage our information security and privacy
risks, we implemented the KPN Security Policy as part of the
BCF (for more details, refer to the separate Privacy and
Security paragraphs on pages 32 and 33).
We have implemented ISO standards in designated areas to
improve operational processes. Additionally, we continuously
simplify services and processes. We implemented quality
improvement plans such as ‘First Time Right’ and continued to
focus on improving Net Promoter Scores (NPS). Risks related
to climate change and compliance with new environmental
legislations are incorporated in our risk management and
control system. For example, flooding risks are managed in
KPN’s business continuity strategy. With our climate neutral
performance for our own operations and continued focus on
absolute energy reduction, we are in a very good position to
meet new regulations and customers’ expectations (read more
in the Sustainability chapter on page 34).
Our main suppliers comply with the Supplier Code of Conduct.
Via this code, suppliers confirm that they support and respect
the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and
operate in the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations (e.g.
by preventing discrimination, child labor or forced labor, and by
recognizing and respecting the environment in their business
operations). Compliance with environmental law is covered by
our ISO14001 certificate.
Financial objectives
KPN’s Corporate Treasury department manages risks related to
cash positions, finance agreements, credit ratings, currency and
interest exposures, and non-life insurance (see Note 12 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements). Treasury has defined
policies with clear boundaries for these risks. Compliance with
these policies is monitored frequently.
As part of KPN’s tax strategy, the Corporate Tax Department
recommends the most tax-efficient and responsible approach
in the interest of all stakeholders, while adhering to KPN’s tax
policy and complying with all relevant tax laws and regulations.
This determines KPN’s overall tax risk appetite. As KPN
proactively engages with (Dutch) tax authorities, tax exposures
(if any) are contained and under control. Besides a potential
tax exposure, reputational risk is always part of the
consideration to apply a particular tax-planning idea.
Financial reporting objectives
Our internal controls for Reliable Financial Reporting (also
known as RFR GRIP Framework) ensure that material
misstatements in KPN’s Financial Statements are prevented or
detected in a timely manner. Each quarter, Risk Management
and KPN Audit assess the overall effectiveness of the controls
before publication of the quarterly figures.

48

The Disclosure Committee examines all reports and documents
containing financial information that are intended for external
publication, to ensure that these fairly present KPN’s financial
position and results.
Compliance objectives
Our Compliance Risk Assessment (CRA) framework comprises
an integrated framework that oversees risks mainly related
to compliance with telecommunications, competition, financial
services (e.g. credit) and privacy legislation. Additionally,
we monitor compliance with Solvency II requirements
(KPN Insurance). For compliance risks, relevant processes
and controls have been implemented and are continuously
monitored. For risks related to our regulated business
(as designated by ACM to have significant market power),
compliance controls are tested by dedicated staff all year round.

5. Report top risks, trends and incidents
Segment management provides the Board of Management
with a quarterly assurance letter regarding the reliability of
their financial reporting, the effectiveness of their internal
controls over financial reporting, risk management and
compliance with telecommunication laws, internal policies and
other laws and regulations. Twice a year, Corporate Control
reports top risks and countermeasures to the Board of
Management, including main improvement actions, if any.
Summary of main risks and countermeasures
In the table on the right page a summary is given of KPN’s main
risks and countermeasures, including the expected trends and
impact. It also lists the KPIs that are used to monitor the
development of the risks and the realization of our risk
appetite. The KPIs are frequently monitored in KPN’s planning
and control cycle and discussed in the Board’s business reviews
with segment management, including improvement actions
where necessary.
For a more extensive list of our risks and countermeasures,
see Appendix 8 included in the digital version of this Integrated
Annual Report available on our website (www.kpn.com/
annualreport).

Financial report

How we safeguard long-term value
Compliance & risk

Risk category and
Risk appetite

Strategic objective

Risk

Grow

Increased competition from
current competitors or new
market entrants, or new
disruptive technologies.

Simplify, Grow

Damage, service interruptions, Operational risk
operational issues in KPN’s
technical infrastructure and IT. KPN is committed to a high
quality of customer services
and to limit disruptions as
Trend:
much as possible.

 onitor performance of
M
technical infrastructure and
IT
Strengthen and simplify the
IT/TI
Back-up and recovery plans
in case of emergencies
(e.g. ‘be alert’ procedures)

Medium; the incidents could
negatively impact KPN’s
customer satisfaction,
reputation and profitability.

Threats to the confidentiality,
integrity or availability of
KPN’s networks, systems or
(customer) data caused by
cyberattacks or terrorism.

 ontinue and reinforce
C
strategic security programs,
such as Permanent
Vulnerability Management
Continued implementation
of the KPN Security Policy
Continue and strengthen
Security Operations Center

High; the incidents could lead
to loss/theft of customer data,
higher costs, penalties and
reputational damage.
This risk could impact our
continuity.

S trengthening the
effectiveness of the
compliance organization and
internal controls
Proactive internal
compliance investigations
Proactive stakeholder and
reputation management
including dialog with
regulators

Medium; the risk could affect
KPN’s future operations and
profitability.

 reparation of auctions by
P
experienced KPN team and
external experts; simulation
of auctions
Investigate alternative
combinations of spectrum
and advanced techniques to
meet required technology

High; KPN may have to pay a
high price for the required
spectrum.
This risk could impact our
continuity.

 PN innovation initiatives,
K
new business as well as
strategic partnerships
Small in-country M&A and
KPN Ventures to form
partnerships with innovative
companies.

High; lack of innovation could
lead to lower profitability as
well as lower market shares.
In the longer run, this risk
could impact our continuity.

KPN is willing to accept
reasonable risks in a
responsible way.

Non-compliance with
regulation, including privacy
and tax regulations. New
regulatory decisions in the EU
and the Netherlands.

Operational risk
KPN is committed to limit
incidents as much as possible
and implements strict policies
to keep our customer data
private, safe and secure.

Compliance risk
KPN is committed to full
compliance with relevant laws
and regulations.

Trend:

Innovate

Frequency auctions in the
Netherlands could entail high
costs.
Trend:

Innovate, Grow

Impact
High: the described risk could
lead to lower profitability as
well as lower market shares.
In the longer run, it could
impact our continuity.

Trend:

Grow

Main countermeasures
(summary)
O
 ffer fixed-mobile services
and competitive price/
portfolio combinations
Invest in quality of service
and improve NPS
Introduce new innovative
products

Strategic risk

Trend:

Simplify, Grow

Appendices

Lack of new business
initiatives to compensate
declining existing business.
Trend:

risk is increasing (worsening)

risk is stable

Strategic risk
KPN is willing to accept
reasonable risks in a
responsible way.

Strategic risk
KPN is willing to accept
reasonable risks in a
responsible way.

Monitoring KPI:
Market shares

Monitoring KPI:
NPS NL
Weighted downtime reduction

Monitoring KPI:
PHOSI (Potential Harm Of
Security Incident)
# data leakages

Monitoring KPI:
Fines
# incidents reported to
regulators

Monitoring KPI:
N.A.

Monitoring KPI:
Revenues new business

risk is decreasing (not as bad)

49

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Compliance & risk
As set forth by section 3 sub 1.c of the Non-financial
information disclosure decree (Besluit bekendmaking nietfinanciële informatie) of 14 March 2017, KPN identified and
assessed its main risks regarding environmental, social and
personnel matters, human rights and anti-bribery and
corruption. For more details on these risks, see Appendix 3.
Internal Audit
KPN’s internal audit function, KPN Audit assesses – in line witrh
Dutch Corporate Governance requirements – the design and
effectiveness of the Internal Risk Management and Control
Systems (refer to page 46) and provides assurance to both the
Board of Management and the Audit Committee concerning
the ‘In Control status’ of KPN’s organization and processes.
Moreover, KPN Audit conducts ad hoc financial, information
technology and operational audits and special investigations.
KPN Audit conducts its activities in a manner based on a
continuous evaluation of perceived business risks, and has full
and unrestricted access to all activities, documents/records,
properties and staff. The Chief Auditor reports to KPN’s CEO.
Quarterly KPN Audit reports are submitted and discussed with
both the Board of Management and the Audit Committee.
KPN Audit liaises extensively with the external auditor, inter
alia based on International Standard on Auditing 610.
Governance of risk management and compliance – three
lines of defense
Although the Board of Management is ultimately responsible
for risk management and compliance, it is business
management’s duty to effectively identify, assess and manage
the main risks of the company, in line with the steps discussed
in the previous paragraphs (first line of defense). The Risk
Management and Compliance department (second line) are
responsible for the design of the risk management and
compliance policies and to support and challenge business
management in their assessment and management of top risks.
KPN Audit (third line) performs, where necessary, independent
reviews on the design and operational effectiveness of the
Internal Risk Management and Control Systems. The main
results of both the risk assessments and the evaluation of the
internal risk management and control systems, are shared with
the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board and discussed
with the external auditor.

50

Description and evaluation of the internal Risk
Management and Control Systems
As set forth by principle 1.2 of the Dutch Corporate Goverance
Code 2016 and related best practice provisions, KPN
has designed and implemented Internal Risk Management and
Control Systems, to identify and manage the risks associated
with the company’s strategy and activities. During 2017,
a project team of Corporate Control and KPN Audit described
and systematically assessed the effectiveness of these systems.
A summary of the main internal risk management and control
systems is provided in the preceding paragraphs.
During the assessment of the design and operating
effectiveness of the systems, certain weaknesses and
improvement actions were identified and implemented.
However, none of these were classified as a major failing,
as referred to in best practice provision 1.4.2 sub iii. For example,
KPN changed and strengthened its permanent vulnerability
management (protecting its systems against cyberattacks)
and the calculation method of certain non-financial KPIs
(improving their reliability).
During 2017, KPN was subject to five penalty cases for breaches
of the law, all relating to telecommunication law. The penalties
were all imposed before 2016. A final decision is still pending
for four cases, the penalties for which amount to EUR
9,573,000. EUR 8,640,000 of this was preliminarily paid in
accordance with Dutch regulations.

How we safeguard long-term value
Compliance & risk

Financial report

Appendices

Statement by the Board of Management and Responsibility
Statement
Statement by the Board of Management
The Board of Management is responsible for the effectiveness of the design and operation of
KPN’s Internal Risk Management and Control Systems. These have been designed to manage
the risks that may prevent KPN from achieving its objectives. However, these Internal Risk
Management and Control Systems cannot provide absolute assurance that material
misstatements, fraud and violations of laws and regulations have been avoided. The Board of
Management reviewed and analyzed:
	The strategic, operational, financial, financial reporting and regulatory and compliance risks, as
discussed in section Summary of main risks and countermeasures on page 48 and 49; and
	The design and operational effectiveness of the Internal Risk Management and Control
Systems, as discussed on pages 46 to 50 of this Integrated Annual Report.
The results of this review and analysis were shared with the Audit Committee and Supervisory
Board and discussed with KPN’s external auditors.
With reference to best practice provision 1.4.3 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and the
chapter ‘Compliance & risk’, including Appendix 8, in this Integrated Annual Report, the Board of
Management states that, to the best of its knowledge:
i.	this Integrated Annual Report provides sufficient insights into major failings in the effectiveness
of the Internal Risk Management and Control Systems. There are no major failings to report;
ii.	the aforementioned systems provide reasonable assurance that the financial reporting, as
included in the Financial Statements on pages 76 to 130, does not contain any material
inaccuracies;
iii.	based on the current state of affairs, it is justified that the financial reporting, as included in
the Financial Statements, is prepared on a going concern basis; and
iv.	this Integrated Annual Report states those material risks and uncertainties that are relevant
to the expectation of the company’s continuity for the period of twelve months after the
preparation of this report.
Responsibility Statement
With reference to section 5.25c paragraph 2c of the Financial Markets Supervision Act, the Board
of Management states that, to the best of its knowledge:
	The Financial Statements of 2017 give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial
position and profit or loss of KPN and its consolidated companies; and
	The Integrated Annual Report gives a true and fair review of the position as at 31 December
2017, the development during 2017 of KPN and its group companies included in the Financial
Statements, together with a description of the top risks KPN faces.
The Hague, 23 February 2018
Eelco Blok
Chairman of the Board of Management
and Chief Executive Officer

Frank van der Post
Member of the Board of Management
and Chief Commercial Officer

Jan Kees de Jager
Member of the Board of Management
and Chief Financial Officer

Joost Farwerck
Member of the Board of Management
and Chief Operations Officer

51

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Composition of the boards

Board of Management
The Board of Management manages KPN’s strategic, commercial, financial, CSR and
organizational matters. The Board of Management currently consists of four members.
All members of the Board of Management comply with clause
2:132a of the Dutch Civil Code, which limits the number of
positions in a supervisory or management board that a director
may hold.

Composition of the Board of Management
Name

Position

E. Blok

Chairman of the Board of Management and Chief Executive Officer

1957

June 2006/2010/2014* 2018

J.C. de Jager

Board member and Chief Financial Officer

1969

September 2014

2018

F.H.M. van der Post

Board member and Chief Commercial Officer

1961

March 2015

2019

J.F.E Farwerck

Board member and Chief Operating Officer

1965

April 2013/2017*

2021

* Reappointment

52

Year of birth

Start of term

End of current term

How we safeguard long-term value
Report by the Supervisory Board

Financial report

E. Blok
Mr. Blok is the Chairman of
the Board of Management and
Chief Executive Officer.

Mr. Blok was appointed as a member of the Board of Management
on 1 June 2006, and was responsible for KPN’s Fixed division
until 1 January 2007. Until 1 February 2010, he was Managing
Director of the Business, Getronics and Wholesale & Operations
segments (including iBasis). As of 1 February 2010, Mr. Blok
assumed responsibility for KPN’s international operations,
comprising Mobile International and iBasis, KPN’s wholesale
international voice traffic carrier. He assumed the additional
role of Chief Operating Officer in October 2010. He was
appointed Chief Executive Officer in April 2011.
Mr. Blok joined KPN in 1983 and has had various management
positions, including as director of KPN’s Carrier Services,
Corporate Networks and Fixed Net Operator, and he was
responsible for Corporate Strategy & Innovation. More recently,
he was Chief Operating Officer of KPN’s former Fixed division.
He was co-chairman of the National Cyber Security Council until
October of this year. Since 18 April 2017, Mr. Blok is member of
the Supervisory Board of PostNL N.V.

Appendices

F.H.M. van der Post
Mr. van der Post is a member of the
Board of Management and Chief
Commercial Officer.

Mr. Van der Post began his career in the hospitality sector in
1985. His positions included that of general manager at the
American and Amstel Hotels in Amsterdam for
InterContinental Hotels, where he worked in a variety of
international assignments.
In 2005, he joined the Jumeirah Group in Dubai, a chain of
luxury hotels in the Middle East and Asia. In 2008, he was
appointed Chief Operating Officer for the group. In 2011,
he switched from the hospitality to the aviation industry,
becoming executive director and board member of British
Airways, where he was responsible for brands & marketing,
products and the customer experience, including cabin crew
and the London Gatwick BA unit.

Mr. Blok will resign from office at the Annual General Meeting
of Shareholders in 2018, having served two terms as Chairman
of the Board of Management and a total of 12 years as a
member of that board. Mr. Blok will be succeeded by Mr. Ibarra.

J.C. de Jager
Mr. de Jager is a member of the
Board of Management and Chief
Financial Officer.

From 2007 to 2012, Mr. de Jager was a member of the Dutch
government, first as State Secretary for Finance (from 2007
to 2010), thereafter as Minister of Finance (from 2010 to 2012).
As Minister of Finance, Mr. de Jager’s responsibilities
encompassed the budget, general financial and economic policy,
supervision of financial markets and cooperation with international
financial institutions. As State Secretary for Finance, Mr. de Jager
was responsible for many change processes, among others
within the Dutch Tax and Customs Administration. From 1992
to 2007, Mr. de Jager founded and was Managing Partner at
ISM eCompany, an eBusiness solutions company, for which he
acted as special advisor after resigning from the Dutch Cabinet
until he was appointed to the board of KPN in September 2014.
Mr. de Jager is a member of the board of Stichting AECA
Nederland and the chair of the Economic Board Zuid-Holland.

J.F.E. Farwerck
Mr. Farwerck is a member of the
Board of Management and Chief
Operating Officer.

Mr. Farwerck started working at KPN in 1994 and held senior
management positions in various divisions. He has been
responsible for all of KPN’s activities in the Netherlands as
Managing Director Netherlands since February 2012, and has
held responsible for the operating activities of KPN as Chief
Operating Officer since September 2014. Mr. Farwerck is a
member of the executive committee of VNO-NCW, a member
of the board of Nederland-ICT, of the board of The Hague
Security Delta, and of the board of Of FME, as well as a member
of the Cyber Security Council. He is also a member
of the Strategic Advisory Board TNO. He is Chairman of the
board of the KPN Group company iBasis.

53

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Composition of the boards

Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board oversees strategic and commercial policymaking by the Board of
Management and the way in which it manages and directs KPN’s operations. KPN’s
Supervisory Board currently consists of eight members.
At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 12 April
2017, Mr. C.J. García Moreno Elizondo and Mr. D.J. Haank were
re-appointed as members of the Supervisory Board. At an
Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of 4 September
2017, Mr. E.J.C. Overbeek was appointed as member of the
Supervisory Board.
All members of the Supervisory Board comply with clause
2:142a of the Dutch Civil Code, which limits the number of
positions in a supervisory or management board that a director
may hold.
Two vacancies will arise at the closure of the Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders in 2018, as Mr. Sickinghe and
Mrs. Zuiderwijk will step down as they will reach the end of their
four-year term of office.
Mr. Spanbroek, General Counsel and Company Secretary,
acts as secretary to the Supervisory Board.

D.W. Sickinghe
Mr. Sickinghe was appointed
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
on 15 April 2015.
Mr. Sickinghe is Managing Director
of Fortino Capital (Belgium).
Furthermore, he is Chairman of the
Supervisory Board of Van Eeghen &
Co (the Netherlands), member of the board of uniBreda
(Belgium) and member of the board of Guberna (Belgium).
Mr. Sickinghe was previously Chief Executive Officer and
member of the Board of Telenet N.V. (Belgium) in the period
2001-2013. Prior to that, he held various management positions
at Hewlett-Packard (Switzerland), NeXT Computer (France),
Wolters Kluwer (the Netherlands) and was founder of Software
Direct (France). Mr. Sickinghe is a Dutch citizen.

Composition of the Supervisory Board

Committees

Strategy &
Organization
Committee

Nominating
& Corporate
Governance
Committee

X

X

Year of
birth

Start of term

End of
current
term

D.W. Sickinghe
(Chairman Supervisory Board)

1958

9 April 2014

2018

P.A.M. van Bommel

1957

12 April 2012
13 April 2016*

2020

X

C.J. García Moreno Elizondo

1957

10 April 2013
12 April 2017*

2021

X

D.J. Haank (Vice-Chairman)

1953

7 April 2009
10 April 2013*
12 April 2017*

2021

X

P.F. Hartman

1949

15 April 2015

2019

X

E.J.C. Overbeek

1967

4 September 2017

2021

X

J.C.M. Sap

1963

15 April 2015

2019

C.J.G. Zuiderwijk

1962

9 April 2014

2018

Name

X Chairman			 X Member			 * Reappointment

54

Audit
Committee

Remuneration
Committee
X

X

X

X
X

X

X

How we safeguard long-term value
Composition of the Boards

Financial report

P.A.M. van Bommel
Mr. van Bommel is currently a
member of the Board of
Management and CFO of ASM
International N.V. and, as part of that
position, also a non-executive
director of ASM PT (Hong Kong).
Furthermore, he is a member of the Supervisory Board of
Neways Electronics International N.V.
Before his appointment as CFO at ASMI, Mr. van Bommel was
CFO at Odersun, CFO at NXP and CFO at various divisions of
Philips. Mr. van Bommel is a Dutch citizen.
C.J. García Moreno Elizondo
Mr. García Moreno Elizondo is
currently CFO of América Móvil.
He holds several supervisory and
advisory positions, including those
of member of the Board of Grupo
Financiero Inbursa and Nacional
Financiera. He is also a member of
the Supervisory Board of Telekom Austria Group.
Prior to joining América Móvil, Mr. García Moreno Elizondo held
positions at among others the Mexican Ministry of Finance as
the Director General of Public Credit and at the Swiss Bank
Corporation Warburg as executive director and managing
director. Mr. García Moreno Elizondo is a Mexican citizen.
D.J. Haank
Mr. Haank is the former CEO of
SpringerNature, from which he
resigned on 31 December 2017.
He is a member of the Supervisory
Council of the Dutch broadcast
association AvroTros.
Before his appointment at Springer,
Mr. Haank was the CEO of Elsevier Science and Executive Board
Member of Reed Elsevier PLC. Mr. Haank is a Dutch citizen.
P.F. Hartman
Mr. Hartman spent 40 years
working for KLM, the last seven
of those as CEO. In 2013- 2017 he
was the vice-chair of the
Supervisory Board of Air France
KLM Group. He is currently the
chairman of the Supervisory Board
of Fokker Technologies Group and of Texel Airport N.V. and a
member of the Supervisory Board of Constellium B.V. Mr.
Hartman is a Dutch citizen.

Appendices

E.J.C. Overbeek
Mr. Overbeek is Chief Executive
Officer of HERE Technologies.
Having spent nearly 30 years in the
ICT industry, Mr Overbeek has gained
extensive experience in the global
digital and communication industry.
Prior to joining HERE Technologies, he held several
management roles at Cisco, including leading the global
services organization and the Asia-Pacific, Japan & China
region. Mr. Overbeek is a Dutch citizen.
J.C.M. Sap
Ms. Sap occupies several
supervisory and other functions,
including chairing the Supervisory
Boards of the GGZ affiliate Arkin,
the Netherlands Public Health
Federation and Fairfood
International. Ms. Sap is also a
member of the Supervisory Board of KPMG N.V.
In addition, she is a partner at Camunico, a consultancy firm in
the field of sustainable management. Between 2008 and 2012,
Ms. Sap represented the Dutch Green Party, GroenLinks, in the
lower house of the Dutch parliament, the last two years of which
she was party leader. Before that, she worked as an economist
in the fields of science, policy and business. She was, inter alia,
head of the Incomes Policy department at the Ministry of Social
Affairs and Employment. Ms. Sap is a Dutch citizen.
C.J.G. Zuiderwijk
Mrs. Zuiderwijk chairs the Board of
Management of the Chamber of
Commerce. She is currently a member
of the Supervisory Board of APG
and is also a member of Forum
Smart Industry and of the NL2025
network.
Mrs. Zuiderwijk worked for PinkRoccade in various management
functions from 1993 to 2003. Thereafter, Mrs. Zuiderwijk
chaired the board of the Hilversum hospital and, following the
merger with the Gooi Noord hospital, the Board of the Tergooi
hospitals. Mrs. Zuiderwijk was also a member of the Innovation
Platform of the Dutch government (from April 2007 to May
2010) and a member of the Care Innovation Platform of the
Dutch Ministry of Health (from April 2008 to May 2010). Mrs.
Zuiderwijk is a Dutch citizen.

55

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Composition of the boards
Insider transactions
KPN employees that have access to inside information because
of their employment, profession or duties, including all
members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board,
are subject to the Code of Conduct ‘Inside Information’. This
Code of Conduct comprises rules for the possession of and
transactions in KPN securities by such employees. Members of

the Board of Management and Supervisory Board are
furthermore subject to reporting obligations to the AFM.
The following table provides an overview of transactions
in 2017 by members of KPN’s Board of Management and
Supervisory Board.

Date

Name

Transaction

1 February

E. Blok

Bought 35,000 ordinary KPN shares.

EUR 2.70

1 February

J.F.E. Farwerck

Bought 15,000 ordinary KPN shares.

EUR 2.69

1 March

F.H.M. van der Post

Vested 53,093 conditional KPN shares (1/4 of the conditional KPN shares awarded on 1
March 2015 as compensation payment) into 33,767 ordinary KPN shares (after sale of
part of the shares to finance the income tax).

EUR –

10 April

E. Blok

Vested 68.75% of the 501,575 conditional KPN shares awarded as LTI 2014 into 177,424
ordinary KPN shares (after sale of part of the shares to finance the income tax).

EUR –

10 April

J.C. de Jager

Vested 68.75% of the 245,871 conditional KPN shares awarded as LTI 2014 into 86,973
ordinary KPN shares (after sale of part of the shares to finance the income tax).

EUR –

10 April

J.F.E. Farwerck

Vested 68.75% of the 226,201 conditional KPN shares awarded as LTI 2014 into 80,015
ordinary KPN shares (after sale of part of the shares to finance the income tax).

EUR –

13 April

E. Blok

Award of 412,889 conditional KPN shares.

EUR –

13 April

J.C. de Jager

Award of 210,492 conditional KPN shares.

EUR –

13 April

F.H.M. van der Post

Award of 226,684 conditional KPN shares.

EUR –

13 April

J.F.E. Farwerck

Award of 202,396 conditional KPN shares.

EUR –

2 May

E. Blok

Bought 20,000 ordinary KPN shares.

1 September

F.H.M. van der Post

Vested 53,095 conditional KPN shares (1/4 of the conditional KPN shares awarded on 1
March 2015 as compensation payment) into 33,768 ordinary KPN shares (after sale of
part of the shares to finance the income tax).

56

Price per share

EUR 2.66
EUR –

How we safeguard long-term value
Composition of the Boards

Financial report

Appendices

Stock ownership Board of Management 1
Number of ordinary shares

31 December 2017

31 December 2016

E. Blok

983,331

750,907

J.C. de Jager

319,383

232,410

F.H.M. van der Post

194,502

126,967

J.F.E. Farwerck

211,086

116,071

1 S hares held by current members of the Board of Management (including vested shares in lock-up period). Share ownership relates to ordinary shares. In 2011,
a share ownership recommendation was introduced whereby the members of the Board of Management are encouraged to acquire company shares equal to
one times the annual fixed compensation for members of the Board of Management (excluding CEO) and two times the annual fixed compensation for the
CEO (see Note 5). Retained vested shares as part of the LTI will be included in the share ownership recommendation.

Stock ownership Supervisory Board
Number of ordinary shares
D.W. Sickinghe
P.A.M. van Bommel
C.J. García Moreno Elizondo
D.J. Haank

31 December 2017

31 December 2016

380,000

380,000

114,000

114,000

–

80,820

24,351

24,351

57

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Report by the Supervisory Board

Supervisory Board Report:
The year 2017
2017 brought another year of solid results for the company, both operationally and financially,
despite a strong and diverse competitive landscape. Fixed-mobile convergence continued to
deliver strong results in the Consumer segment, whereas the Business segment transformation
is gradually progressing. The continued ambition to become the best service provider across
all sectors in the Netherlands resulted in increasing Net Promoter Scores, a key indicator of
customer satisfaction and loyalty. The Simplification program not only helped to better focus
and to improve the quality of our service, but also lead to structurally lower cost levels.
Throughout the year, the Supervisory Board reviewed the progress on the execution of the
plans, and challenged both the plans and the results where relevant.
Strategic themes
In its meetings and in particular through the Strategy &
Organization Committee, the Supervisory Board regularly
discussed the key strategic themes of the company, including
the Business segment transformation, the competitive
landscape, network roll-out and investments in content.
It furthermore discussed opportunities for mergers and
acquisitions within the expressed framework of ‘small, in
country M&A’. It most notably reviewed and approved the
acquisition of QSight IT, which strengthens KPN’s position as
a leading Dutch security services provider. The Supervisory
Board furthermore discussed the best use of the stake in
Telefónica Deutschland and approved the swap of part of that
stake for shares in Telefónica SA, which were subsequently
sold. The subsequent EUR 200m share buyback program also
received the Supervisory Board’s support.
In a separate meeting, the Supervisory Board discussed the
views of the Board of Management on the vision for the
company in the longer term, and the strategic choices to be
made in this respect. We particularly value such open
exchanges on critical long-term themes, and believe this adds
important value to the debate between the Supervisory Board
and the Board of Management.

Corporate social responsibility
The Supervisory Board was extremely pleased by the
recognition for KPN’s corporate social responsibility (CSR)
activities, e.g. as the Industry Leader in the Dow Jones
Sustainability Index, and by being recognized on the A-list of
the Carbon Disclosure Project. Over the past years, CSR has
become an integral part of KPN’s strategy through highly

58

relevant themes such as energy consumption, privacy &
security and healthcare, where KPN can make a real impact in
Dutch society. The goal to become largely circular by 2025 has
the board’s full support. And of course we congratulate het
Mooiste Contact Fonds on its 10th anniversary.

CEO succession
In October, the Supervisory Board announced the intended
appointment of Maximo Ibarra as the new CEO of the company,
following the end of Eelco Blok’s second term in that position
at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2018.
The announcement followed a period of intensive and
thorough deliberation by the Supervisory Board on the
company’s strategy and challenges for the coming period, the
desired profile for the company’s CEO in light thereof, and the
evaluation of candidates to fit that profile. This process lead to
the final conclusion to appoint Maximo Ibarra as the new CEO.
The Supervisory Board believes Maximo Ibarra to be a widely
respected and dynamic leader with a proven track record in the
telecommunications industry and a deep understanding of
customer needs. As CEO of Wind in Italy, Maximo has
successfully led the merger between Wind and H3G, creating
Wind Tre, a leading integrated mobile and fixed player in the
Italian market. We are excited to appoint him and convinced
that with his wealth of experience and a demonstrated ability
to lead, Maximo will be able to navigate KPN into its next phase.
The Supervisory Board is very grateful to Eelco Blok for his
tremendous contribution to the company during his full career
of 34 years. Eelco has been a member of the Board of
Management for 12 years, of which seven as its chairman and
CEO. During his successful tenure as CEO, he has been able to

How we safeguard long-term value
Report by the Supervisory Board

Financial report

put KPN into a very strong position, as we can all see today.
Eelco deserves a lot of credit for his relentless focus on
execution and enormous personal drive. His leadership and
commitment to the success and evolution of KPN has been
impressive. Above industry-average investment in networks,
simplification, digitalization and service have led to much
stronger customer loyalty and reputation, providing a solid
platform for growth. Furthermore, through a number of smart
acquisitions Eelco has brought important innovation to KPN.
We are grateful to Eelco for bringing his leadership, dedication
and perseverance to KPN. He has been instrumental in the
innovation at KPN and the renewal of our company culture.

Appendices

Shareholders

As part of the arrangements around his resignation, Eelco Blok
will receive a severance payment of one year’s base salary,
which fits the company’s remuneration policy and the Dutch
Corporate Governance Code.

For shareholders, 2017 showed robust returns, including the
regular dividend, pass through of the dividend received from
our stake in Telefónica Deutschland and a EUR 200 million
share buyback program. KPN’s total shareholder return (share
price performance and returns) outperformed the relevant
European Telecoms indices, but underperformed the broader
market indices, such as the AEX Index. In its deliberations and
decisions, the Supervisory Boards aims to take due account of
our shareholders’ interests at all times, and throughout the year
we have had a number of contacts with shareholders in order
to understand their concerns, listen to their inputs and benefit
from their expertise. An investor perception study
commissioned by the Board of Management was discussed in a
Supervisory Board meeting and provided valuable inputs on
the views of our shareholders.

Corporate governance

The boards

The new Dutch Corporate Governance Code, as presented in
late 2016 and formally adopted by the Dutch government in
2017, emphasizes the need to focus on long-term value
creation for the company. The implementation of the new code
was discussed by the Supervisory Board on multiple occasions,
with strong support for the main focal points of the new code,
including the enhanced attention for long-term value creation,
broad attention for risk management and culture as a key
contributor to the integrity of the company. The Supervisory
Board amended its own practices on a number topics to
comply with the latest insights on good governance and, at the
same time, was pleased to find that the company’s existing
practices were already for a large part compliant with these
insights. In its December meeting, the Supervisory Board
approved new by-Laws and Terms of Reference for both
Boards and the Supervisory Board’s committees, incorporating
the changes in the Code.

Composition
In its evaluation of 2016, the Supervisory Board concluded
it could benefit from more knowledge of, and experience in,
the digital and communication industry. With the appointment
of Edzard Overbeek in September 2017 we have strengthened
our profile in this respect, and now have a composition that we
believe to suit the needs of the company today. We will
however continue to review our own composition and
functioning over time, in order to ensure we continue to have
the right knowledge, experience and diversity for the
performance of our tasks. For an overview of the current skills
and competences, please refer to the skills matrix.

The Supervisory Board continued its open dialogue with the
Central Works Council, and was proud that KPN was rewarded
the Driehoek 3D award for the cooperation between the
Central Works Council, the Board of Management and the
Supervisory Board.

At the end of the 2018 AGM, both Mrs. Zuiderwijk and Mr.
Sickinghe are due to step down from the Supervisory Board,
having reached the end of their first term in the office. The
position of Mrs. Zuiderwijk is subject to the enhanced right of
recommendation of the Central Works Council, which
recommended her reappointment. Based on the skills matrix,
the Supervisory Board believes Mrs. Zuiderwijk fits the profile
of the Supervisory Board and the desired skills, and therefore
happily accepts the recommendation. For the position of Mr.
Sickinghe, key requirements include knowledge of an
experience in the telecommunications industry, international
experience, financial market expertise and strong leadership.
The committee concluded that a reappointment of Mr.
Sickinghe would best fit this profile. The Central Works Council
supports the nomination.

59

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Report by the Supervisory Board
D.W.
Sickinghe

D.J.
Haank

P.A.M. van
Bommel

C.J.
García
Moreno

C.J.G.
Zuiderwijk

P.F.
Hartman

Business leadership

x

x

x

x

x

x

Industry knowledge (Telco)

x

Industry knowledge (IT)

x

Commercial

x

Operational

x

Skills / Characteristics

J.C.M.
Sap

x

x

x
x

x

E.J.C.
Overbeek

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

Employment / social relations

x

x

x

Society / government relations

x

x

x

Corporate social responsibility

x

Financial markets

x

x

x

x

Finance, audit & risk
Financial experts (Dutch Corporate Governance
Code)
International experience

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

x

Executive / Non-executive
(Full-time) Executive position at another company

x

Mainly non-executive role

x
x

x

Diversity
Male

x

x

Female

As for the composition of the Board of Management, the most
important matter at hand was a decision on the position of the
CEO, as already explained above. In addition, as the four-year
term of office of Mr. de Jager will expire in the course of 2018,
the Supervisory Board has also considered his reappointment
as CFO. Given his past performance and the expectations of his
contribution to the future of the company, the Supervisory
Board concluded that it intends to reappoint Mr. de Jager for a
second four-year term. The Supervisory Board thereby
particularly valued his experience within KPN, his financial
expertise, his entrepreneurial experience, his extensive
experience gained during his career in both the private and
public sector, as well as his operational leadership in the
technology sector and his effective and open leadership style.
Shareholders will be informed of this intention at the AGM in
April 2018.
The Supervisory Board remains committed to ensuring that the
Supervisory Board and Board of Management will consist of at
least 30% female and at least 30% male members, thereby
serving the interest of a balanced composition of the boards.
When searching for candidates for available board seats,
including the expansion of the Supervisory Board and the CEO
succession in 2017, special attention has been given to
identifying female candidates. However, in both cases, based
on the profile for the position at hand, a male candidate finally
proved to be the best choice for the company.
60

x

x

x
x

x
x

For upcoming vacancies, we aim to make further progress in
reaching at least a 30% female representation. In this context it
is noted however that, in case of potential reappointments, the
Supervisory Board would first determine whether the existing
member would be (proposed for) reappointment and aim for
further female candidates only if the existing member will not
be reappointed. Given that consideration, we believe the
diverse composition of the Supervisory Board can be reached
by 2022 at the latest. As for the positions in the Board of
Management, this will highly depend on future vacancies and
opportunities. The Supervisory Board supports KPN’s diversity
policy (see page 23), which should in time also lead to more
internally promotable female candidates.
The Supervisory Board devoted fair time to its own permanent
education, in particular around the new Dutch Corporate
Governance Code, but it also received an introduction on
quantum computing for instance. The Supervisory Board
evaluated its own performance in its meeting in January 2018,
and concluded that it was generally satisfied with its own
performance, noting in particular strong and collegial
cooperation amongst its members. As items for further
improvement it noted obtaining relevant information from the
company, sufficient outside-in views and expertise and a
balanced and efficient agenda setting between the committees
and the full board.

Financial report

How we safeguard long-term value
Report by the Supervisory Board

Meetings
The Supervisory Board met on 13 occasions, of which 8 were
regularly scheduled. Most meetings took – at least partly place with the Board of Management. The Supervisory Board
however also held closed (parts of) meetings without members
of the Board of Management attending, including around the
CEO succession. Also outside of formal board meetings,
members of the Supervisory Board were in frequent contact.
The overall attendance at the Supervisory Board meetings was
92%. An overview of attendance per member of the
Name
Van Bommel
Garcia Moreno

Board (13)

Audit (4)

100%

100%

77%

50%

Appendices

Supervisory Board and per Committee is provided in the table
below.
All members had adequate time available to prepare
themselves and give the required attention to the matters at
hand. In the event members could not join a meeting, the
Chairman discussed the matters at hand before and after the
meeting, in order to obtain the input and views of all
Supervisory Board members.
SOC (3)

RemCo (5)

NomCo (8)

100%

100%

Hartman

100%

100%

Haank

100%

100%

86%

0%

Overbeek¹
Sap

100%

100%

Sickinghe

92%

100%

100%

100%

Zuiderwijk

77%

100%

100%

100%

Total

92%

92%

100%

100%

83%

1 M
 r. Overbeek joined the Board in the course on the year, and attended 5 out of 6 board meetings, but could not attend the one meeting of the SOC that was
held since he joined.

Independence
At all times, the composition of the Supervisory Board was
such, that the members were able to act critically and
independently of one another, the Board of Management and
any particular interest involved, as provided for under best
practices provisions 2.1.7 to 2.1.9 of the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code. Throughout the year, seven members of the
Supervisory Board, including the Chairman, were independent
from the company within the meaning of these provisions. Mr.
García Moreno Elizondo, who was appointed upon the
nomination of America Móvil, is not considered independent
under provision 2.1.8 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code.
See Note 21 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for
information on related party transactions.

Committee Reporting
The Supervisory Board has established four Committees: The
Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee (RemCo), the
Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee (NomCo)
and the Strategy and Organization Committee (SOC). The main
considerations and conclusions of each Committee were
shared with the full Supervisory Board.

Audit Committee
The Audit Committee had four regularly scheduled meetings,
all of which were also attended by the CFO, the external auditor
Ernst & Young Accountants LLP (EY), the Internal Auditor and
the Director Corporate Control and partly attended by the
Chairman of the Supervisory Board. The committee also met
separately with EY, which was appointed by the Annual General
Meeting of shareholders as KPN’s independent external
auditor.
The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed in particular all
financially relevant matters that were presented to the
Supervisory Board, most notably the Annual Report, the
quarterly results, (the financial and risk-related aspects of) the
strategic plan and the outlook for 2018. It had a specific focus
on the effectiveness and outcome of the internal control
framework and the risk management systems of the company,
for which it received and reviewed reports by the Internal
Auditor, the Compliance Office and the Disclosure Committee.
Each quarter, the Audit Committee also discussed in detail the
matters included in the board report of the external auditor EY.
At the start of the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the 2017
plans of the internal and external auditors, addressing the key
topics for their audits.

61

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Report by the Supervisory Board
The Audit Committee also kept close oversight on KPN’s
financing policy and profile and the related proposals for
dividends, a share buyback program and bond redemptions.
Also, the Audit Committee discussed the options to monetize
part of the Telefonica Deutschland stake (and related use of
proceeds) and monitored the execution thereof (through e.g.
a swap in - and subsequent sale of - Telefónica shares).
The Audit Committee furthermore discussed other topics that
were within its scope of attention, most notably compliance,
fraud management and tax matters, and paid specific attention to
such topics as IT/TI/Cybersecurity, changes in IFRS regulations
and the execution of the new design of the finance organization.
Finally, the Audit Committee reviewed the performance
evaluation of EY (and was satisfied with the results) and also
performed a self-assessment by means of an extensive
questionnaire. The overall outcome of the evaluation was
positive and some attention points were defined. The Audit
Committee also reflected on the impact of the new Dutch
Corporate Governance Code on its functioning.
Strategy and Organization Committee
The Strategy and Organization Committee held three meetings
in 2017, which were also attended by several members of the
Board of Management and staff.
The committee worked with the Board of Management to
evaluate aspects of the company’s current and potential
strategy, where relevant in preparation of decisions in the full
Supervisory Board. The topics discussed were chosen by the
Committee based on suggestions by Management or the
Committee itself, and included such topics as the competitive
landscape, the transformation of business market, (TV) content
and the hybrid access strategy. The Committee on a regular
basis reviewed relevant M&A developments and was kept
updated on the progress of KPN Ventures. By discussing such
topics, the committee enabled the full Board to gain an even
better view of the impact of choices made on the company,
hence improving the Supervisory Board’s oversight, while
having in-depth discussions with relevant members of staff.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee met on five occasions during
2017. The CEO attended (parts of) the committee meetings.
The Committee assisted the Supervisory Board in establishing
and reviewing KPN’s pay policy to ensure that members of
the Board of Management are compensated consistently with
that policy.
The committee defined the level of pay-out for individual
members of the Board of Management as part of the STI plan
2016 and LTI grant 2014, and determined the financial and
non-financial targets and performance criteria for the STI and LTI
plans 2017. It reviewed the remuneration policy against the new
Dutch Corporate Governance Code and made minor amendments

62

in the execution of the policy to be fully compliant. It discussed
the most relevant manner to report on pay ratios within the
company, as set out in the remuneration report.
The Committee furthermore prepared the remuneration
package for the new CEO, including the proposed base salary,
for final decision-making by the Supervisory Board.
During an annual evaluation meeting with the individual
members of the Board of Management, it took note of the
views of their members on their own remuneration.
When engaging external experts, the Committee ensured that the
expert was independent from the consultant used by the Company
and acted solely on the instructions of the Committee on a
basis in which conflicts of interest were avoided.
Further details on the remuneration policy are provided in the
chapter ‘Remuneration Report’ starting on page 64.
Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee
The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee met on
eight occasions in 2017. It reviewed both the composition of the
Board of Management and the Supervisory Board and lead the
annual evaluation of the performance of the individual
members of the Board of Management.
As for the Board of Management, the Committee lead the
process and deliberations of the Supervisory Board around
the CEO succession, as set out above. Among other things
the committee prepared the desired profile of the CEO, and
engaged an external consultant to search for candidates,
which it subsequently evaluated. It presented the Supervisory
Board with options for decision-making. In light of future
board composition, it also performed a review of the senior
management of the company.
The Committee furthermore evaluated the potential
reappointment of Mr. de Jager, who will reach the end of his
first term of appointment in September 2018. Given his past
performance and the expectations of his contribution to the
future of the company, the Committee concluded it was in the
best interest of the company to recommend the reappointment
of Mr. de Jager for a further four-year term.
As for the composition of the Supervisory Board itself, the
Committee steered the process leading to the appointment
of Mr. Overbeek, as well as the proposed reappointment of
Mr. Sickinghe and Mrs. Zuiderwijk, who are due to step down at
the 2018 AGM. As the latter process involved two members of
the Committee, the Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board
was also involved in this process. Please refer to the section of
the Composition of the Boards above for a further explanation
of the reasons for these nominations.
The Committee furthermore monitored the implementation of
the new Dutch Corporate Governance Code in the company,
and amongst others prepared the review of the new by-laws
and Terms of Reference of the Boards and the Committees.

How we safeguard long-term value
Report by the Supervisory Board

Financial report

Appendices

Financial Statements

Final remarks

The Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017
were prepared by the Board of Management and approved by
the Supervisory Board. The Report of the Independent Auditor,
Ernst & Young Accountants LLP (EY), is included in the ‘Other
Information’ on page 131.

We exist by virtue of our customers. Our employees and
management make us who we are. Our business partners
enable us to reach our goals together. Our shareholders and
bondholders trust us with their financial resources to allow us
to finance our business. We aim to be an engaged member of
Dutch society at large.

The Supervisory Board recommends that the Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders adopts these Financial Statements.

The Supervisory Board is grateful to all stakeholders for their
contribution to our company.
Duco W. Sickinghe, Chairman
Peter A.M. van Bommel
Carlos J. García Moreno Elizondo
Derk J. Haank
Peter F. Hartman
Edzard J.C. Overbeek
Jolande C.M. Sap
Claudia J.G. Zuiderwijk

63

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Remuneration Report
Introduction
We are committed to preserving your confidence and trust by
presenting an accountable and transparent implementation of
our remuneration policy.
KPN’s core values are Customer, Together and Simplicity which
form the essence of our organizational culture. Considering
these core values and also being aware of the public debate
surrounding the topic of executive remuneration, we strive to
balance our core values and all stakeholder interests in our
remuneration programs. We thereby emphasize on short- and
long-term value creation through pay-for-performance based
on financial and non-financial targets and benchmarked
median pay levels. This ensures a strong alignment with the
company’s annual performance goals and long-term value
creation strategy based on addressing the needs and
challenges of society.
The Remuneration Committee’s (the Committee) tasks are laid
down in the terms of reference of the Committee. The
Committee assists the Supervisory Board with establishing,
implementing and reviewing the company’s remuneration
policy to ensure that members of the Board of Management
are compensated in consistence with that policy.
The Chairman and members of the Remuneration Committee
are appointed by the Supervisory Board. The Committee
currently consists of Mr. Hartman (Chairman), Mr. Sickinghe
and Mrs. Zuiderwijk.

KPN’s remuneration policy; a balanced approach
between market competitive standards and long-term
value creation
The objectives and principles of KPN’s remuneration policy are
based on a balanced approach between market competitive
standards, the ratio between fixed- and variable pay (with a
focus on long-term value creation) and the economic and
social contribution of the company linked to the non-financial
parameters of the variable pay:
Objectives:

Principles:

Market competitive standards:
Attracting, motivating and retaining
the necessary leadership talent

Paying at market-median level

Complying with best practice in corporate
governance

Enhancing transparency and
clarity

Supporting a work environment where
inspiring leadership is the norm

Differentiating by experience
and responsibility, while
promoting internal fairness

Ratio base/variable pay (focus on long-term value creation):
Driving performance that generates
long-term sustainable and profitable
growth

Paying for performance

Encouraging customer satisfaction and
loyalty, agility and innovation

Rewarding a customer centric
approach

Economic and social contribution:
Creating economic value by addressing the Balancing all stakeholder
needs and challenges of society
interests

Overview

Executive
remuneration at a
glance

Duties of t he
Committee

Executive
remuneration.
policy – overview

Supervisory Board pay
policy

A

B

C

D

Highlights of KPN’s
remuneration policy and
actual remuneration

Insight into the
duties of the
Committee

In-depth insight into
KPN’s remuneration
policy for the Boardof
Management and
execution thereof

Highlights of KPN’s
pay policy for the
Supervisory Board

64

How we safeguard long-term value
Remuneration Report

Financial report

Appendices

A. Executive remuneration at a glance
The pay mix for executives consists of the following four elements:
Component

Form

Fixed/variable

Drivers

Base salary

Cash

Fixed

Experience and responsibility

Benefits (primarily pensions)

Funded by cash contributions

Fixed

Market-competitive standards

Short-Term Incentive (STI)

Cash

Variable

Performance – assessed through annual financial and non-financial targets

Long-Term Incentive (LTI)

Conditional shares

Variable

Performance – assessed through relative TSR (peer group),
free cash flow, earnings per share and non-financial parameters

The ratio between fixed and variable pay
The ratio between fixed and variable pay is influenced by the
extent to which targets are met. The following pie charts
represent the pay mix for both the CEO and the other board
members in case of an on-target performance. The different
pay mix for the CEO (when compared to the other executives)
reflects the outcome of the benchmark reference.
KPN’s remuneration levels
KPN’s remuneration levels are benchmarked against other
companies in order to ensure that KPN’s total level of
compensation based on the pay mix is in line with KPN’s
remuneration policy and objectives, as described above. In
order to benchmark pay levels, KPN uses an employment peer
group of companies against which KPN competes for talent.
The peer employment group consists of AEX-listed and
European sector-specific companies. The advice of Korn Ferry
Hay Group, an independent external consultant, is used by the
Committee to ensure an objective benchmark for KPN’s
remuneration policy and levels of remuneration.

Remuneration policy

Compensation
Compensation
policy
policy
CEO CEO

OtherOther
Executives
Executives
Base Base
STI STI
LTI LTI

Base Base
STI STI
LTI LTI

30% 30%
36% 36%
42% 42%

40% 40%

28% 28%

24% 24%

65

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Remuneration Report
Actual remuneration Board of Management
In thousands of EUR. See the section ‘Personnel Expenses’ section in the Consolidated Financial Statements for full disclosure of
remuneration cost under IFRS principles. Actual remuneration 2017 shows elevated levels compared to the last year, a confirmation
of the fact that the company has delivered results, outperforming its ambitions on both financial and non-financial aspects over the
past 3-year’s period, creating (long-term) value for all stakeholders.
Name

Year

Base

STI

Actual vested LTI
over results in
the past 3 years

Eelco Blok

2017

850

859

1,870¹

269

3,848

2016

850

531

1,031²

264

2,676

2017

643

367

917¹

124

2,051

2016

625

238

505²

122

1,490

2017

700

363

1,474¹-³

180

2,717

2016

700

266

318⁴

171

1,455

2017

611

332

843¹

144

1,930

2016

575

239

465²

139

1,418

Jan Kees de Jager

Frank van der Post

Joost Farwerck

Pension cost and
social security

Total

1 Final measurement of the 2015 share grant was conducted in 2018, which leads to 172.86% vesting of the shares in April 2018. The amounts give an
indication of the underlying value of the shares that will vest in April 2018 based on the closing share price of KPN at 15 February 2018 (EUR 2.56).
2 Final TSR measurement for the 2014 share grant was conducted in 2017, which led to vesting of shares in April 2017. The estimated numbers in the 2016
Remuneration Report are restated with the actual value at vesting with exception for Mr. van der Post as no 2014 share plan was granted to him.
3 In March and September 2017, part of the long-term compensation of Mr. van der Post vested as agreed at his appointment as Board member in 2015.
4 In March 2016, part of the long-term payment of Mr. van der Post vested as agreed at his appointment as Board member in 2015.

Incentives aligned with strategy and sustainable
performance growth
The focus of KPN’s strategy is on accelerating up- and
cross-sell in bundles, growth in TV and IT services, finalization
of business transformation and further improving customer
experience. Combined with a flexible and simplified integrated
network and operating model KPN continues to expand its
superior access position by deploying innovative technologies.
Together, this leads to an optimized financial framework and a
growing dividend. The goals and objectives of this strategy are
reflected in the short- to medium-term targets and long-term
targets, which are used to compensate senior management for
their performance. The performance measures also strengthen
sustainable performance growth by focusing on both financial
and non-financial performance indicators.
Level of variable compensation aligned with the
company’s risk profile
KPN aligns incentives with its long-term strategy, but it also
needs to focus on short-term success in order to achieve
further growth. The company’s risk profile is embedded in the
short-term and long-term incentive structure which
measurement is assured by KPN’s standards of internal control
over financial reporting.

66

KPN’s internal pay ratio
In line with the revised Dutch Corporate Governance Code
(2016), KPN takes into account the internal pay ratios within
the organization when formulating the remuneration policy.
In light of transparency and clarity, KPN applies a methodology
to calculate the internal pay ratio that is IFRS-driven (i.e. linked
to KPN’s Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).
KPN’s internal pay ratio is calculated as the total CEO
compensation divided by the average employee compensation
(total personnel expenses divided by the average number of
FTE)5. Consequently, KPN’s calculated pay ratio in 2017 is 36
(2016: 33).
For further details see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

5 KPN has temporary employees, who are not included in the published FTE
numbers. A like-for-like comparison is established by adjusting costs for
“additional labor capacity” and “own work capitalized” in the calculation of
the average employee compensation.

How we safeguard long-term value
Remuneration Report

Financial report

B. Duties of the Committee
Duties of the Committee
The Committee assists the Supervisory Board with:
	Establishing and reviewing the company’s remuneration
policy (based amongst other things, on national and
international benchmark standards);
	Ensuring that members of the Board of Management
are compensated consistently with that policy; and
	Reviewing and, if appropriate, recommending changes
to the pay of the Supervisory Board.
Members of the Supervisory Board regularly liaise with
senior management below Board of Management level.
In performing its duties, the Committee is assisted by an
external remuneration consultancy firm (i.e. Korn Ferry Hay
Group). The Committee is fully independent in the execution
of its assigned responsibilities and ensures that the external
remuneration consultancy firm acts on the instructions of the
Committee and on a basis by which conflicts of interest are
avoided. Further information on the activities of the committee
in 2017 can be found in the Report by the Supervisory Board.

C. Executive remuneration policy – overview
Objectives of KPN’s remuneration policy
The essence of our organizational culture is aimed at delivering
results. KPN’s remuneration programs therefore emphasize
variable pay and long-term value creation.
Sustainable performance growth
The performance measures of the short- and long-term
incentive plans are aligned with sustainable performance
growth. The focus is on both financial and non-financial targets
in order to support creation of economic value by addressing
the needs and challenges of society. Examples of such
non-financial performance measures are: customer satisfaction,
loyalty and customer base, reputation targets and energy
reduction targets. The alignment of KPN’s remuneration policy
with its strategic goals is reflected in the following overview.

Appendices

Strategic Goals of ‘Simplify - Grow - Innovate’

Short-term targets

Long-term targets

Financial

Financial

Non-financial

Non-financial

Reward
Cash

Reward
Conditional shares

Principles of KPN’s remuneration policy
KPN’s remuneration policy is guided by the following main
principles:
1)	Paying at market-median level: this is achieved through
benchmarking against an employment market peer group
consisting of companies with which KPN generally
competes for talent;
2)	Pay-for-performance: target remuneration aims at 30–40%
of pay in base salary, and 60–70% in variable pay in order to
maintain a strong alignment with the company’s annual
financial performance goals and long-term value creation
strategy;
3)	Differentiating by experience and responsibility:
this is achieved through alignment of the pay with the
responsibilities, relevant experience, required competence
and performance of individual jobholders. Consequently,
there can be substantial differentials in pay levels, despite
employees having similar job titles; and
4)	Balancing all stakeholder interests based on a transparent
remuneration policy.
These principles apply to all levels of senior management.
The company’s remuneration policy is compliant with the
relevant legal requirements and the principles of the revised
Dutch Corporate Governance Code.
Composition of employment market peer group
and market assessment
To ensure the overall competitiveness of KPN’s remuneration
levels, these levels are benchmarked against an employment
market peer group. The Committee uses one peer group
consisting of AEX-listed companies and European sectorspecific companies. The following table shows the current
composition of KPN’s employment peer group:

67

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Remuneration Report
Employment peer group
AkzoNobel NV

BT Group Plc

DSM NV

Cap Gemini NV

Heineken NV

Portugal Telecom SA

Randstad Holding NV

Proximus SA

RELX NV/Plc

Swisscom AG

Royal Ahold Delhaize NV

Vodafone Group Plc

Royal Philips NV

Unilever NV/Plc

The Committee regularly reviews the peer group to ensure that
its composition is still appropriate. The composition of the peer
group might be adjusted as a result of mergers or other
corporate activities. The relative size of KPN is taken into
account when determining whether KPN’s pay levels are in line
with the market-median levels.
Base salary
The Committee determines appropriate base salary levels
based on KPN’s relative positioning in the peer group taken
into account the underlying principles of the remuneration
policy. Each year, the Supervisory Board considers whether
circumstances justify an adjustment in base salary within the
market-competitive target range for individual members of the
Board of Management.
Short-term Incentives (STI): 70% financial and 30%
non-financial targets
General
At the beginning of each year, the Supervisory Board sets
financial and non-financial target ranges for the Board of
Management. These ranges are based on the company’s
business plan. At the end of the year, the Supervisory Board
reviews the company’s performance against the target ranges.
Members of the Board of Management are eligible for an
annual cash incentive only if company performance is at or
above the predetermined ranges.
Objectives: focus on both financial and non-financial targets
The objective of this STI scheme is to ensure that the Board of
Management is well incentivized to achieve company
performance targets in the shorter term. Specific details on
targets cannot be disclosed for performance measures, as this
would require providing commercially sensitive information.
The Committee uses scenario analysis to estimate the possible
outcomes and decides whether a correct risk incentive is set
for the members of the Board of Management with respect to
the overall level of pay and pay differentials within the
company.

68

Performance incentive zone
The target ranges for financial and operational performance
comprise:
A ‘threshold’ below which no incentive is paid;
An ‘on-target’ performance level at which an ‘on-target’
incentive is paid; and
A ‘maximum’ at which the maximum incentive is paid.
The STI is designed to strike a balance between the company’s
risk profile and the incentive to achieve ambitious targets. The
pay-out methodology is based on a separate pay-out approach
for each of the financial and non-financial targets. The
Supervisory Board’s ability to apply a discretionary factor
ranges between 0.7 (reducing the incentive by 30%) and 1.3
(increasing the incentive by 30%). With this discretionary
factor, the Supervisory Board is able to express the assessment
of the overall individual performance of each member of the
Board of Management. The Supervisory Board has agreed a set
of non-financial KPI’s with each individual member of the Board
of Management. The performance based on these KPI’s will be
evaluated by the Committee annually and discussed with the
individual Board members at the end of each year. The
outcome of this discussion will be used by the Supervisory
Board as a reference to determine the discretionary factor.
Discretion both upwards and downwards can be applied by the
Supervisory Board if the outcome of the STI scheme would
produce an unfair result or if the outcome would not be
considered to reflect the basic objectives and principles of pay
as outlined in this section.
Actual pay-out levels
Based on the financial and non-financial targets set by the
Supervisory Board at the beginning of the year free cash flow
(weighting 30%) performed above maximum while the targets
EBITDA (weighting 25%), customer base (weighting 15%), Net
Promoter Score (weighting 15%) and revenue (weighting 15%)
performed, each, between threshold and target level.

How we safeguard long-term value
Remuneration Report

Financial report

Appendices

Short-term Incentives (STI)
Component
Form of compensation
Value determination

Targets

Short-term incentives
Cash
‘On-target’ incentive equals 90% of base salary for the CEO and 60% of base salary for the other members of the Board of
Management.
Targets typically are EBITDA, free cash flow, revenue and various measures of customer and employee satisfaction, customer
loyalty and customer base. A circuit breaker is applicable as a minimum requirement for pay-out of the STI non-financial
parameters.If this minimum requirement is not achieved, the non-financial parameters of the STI will not generate a pay-out.

Pay-out at threshold
performance

25% of the ‘on-target’ incentive (i.e. 22.5% of base salary for the CEO and 15% of base salary for the other members of the Board
of Management). Pay-out below threshold performance: 0% of the ‘on-target’ incentive.

Discretionary factor

A factor between 0.7, reducing the incentive by 30%, and 1.3, increasing the incentive by 30%.

Scenario maximum

Pay-out capped at 150% of the ‘on-target’ incentive (i.e. 135% of base salary for the CEO and 90% of base salary for the other
members of the Board of Management).

Long-term Incentives (LTI)
Component
Form of compensation
Value determination1

Targets

On-target
Scenario maximum

Long-term share-based compensation
Shares
CEO: based on 135% of base pay. Other members of the Board of Management: based on 90% of base pay.
For 25% based on relative TSR versus peer group, for 25% on free cash flow, for 25% on earnings per share, for 12.5% on
sustainability/environmental targets and for 12.5% on stakeholder/customer targets. Vesting of non-financial targets will be
subject to achieving a cumulative net profit during the vesting period of three years (i.e. qualifier for vesting).
100% of the granted shares vest.
Position 1 in TSR peer group and maximum performance of financial and non-financial targets: 200% of the granted shares vest.

1 Based on the average share price of the first trading day after the AGM. Dividend paid during the vesting period will be included in the value determination.

Long-term Incentives (LTI): 75% financial and 25%
non-financial targets
General
In addition to the base salary and the short-term annual cash
incentive described above, a long-term incentive based on
performance shares is used to ensure that the interests of the
members of the Board of Management are aligned with those
of its long-term (or prospective) shareholders and to provide
an incentive for members of the Board of Management to
continue their employment/service agreement relationship
with the company.
The number of shares granted under this plan is based on a
percentage of base pay as shown in the LTI table. The vesting
methodology is based on a separate vesting approach for each
of the financial and non-financial targets.

It is considered that comparing KPN’s TSR with a wider group
of companies (either geographically or with other industries) is
not meaningful. Variations in returns would most likely be
attributed largely to macro-economic events and/or sector shifts
rather than to variations in management actions. Therefore,
benchmarking TSR achievements relative to other, similar
companies emphasizes rewarding for specific KPN performance.
The non-financial parameters set are based on energy
reduction and a reputation dashboard. See the relevant
sections of this Integrated Annual Report for detailed
information about energy reduction and reputation. The
performance period of the LTI plan is set at three years. Vesting
is, in principle, also subject to the condition that the member of
the Board of Management has not resigned within three years
of the date of the initial grant. The Committee uses scenario
analysis to estimate the possible outcomes of the value of the
69

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Remuneration Report
shares vesting in coming years and decides whether a correct
risk incentive is set for the members of the Board of
Management with respect to the overall level of pay and pay
differentials within the company.
See Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for a
further description and valuation of the option and share plans.
Performance-measuring and peer group performance
The following table provides an overview of KPN’s performance
peer group to determine KPN’s relative shareholder return for
LTI plans.
Companies included in the peer group
BT Group Plc

Tele2 AB

Deutsche Telekom AG

Telekom Austria AG

Orange Belgium SA

Telia Company AB

Orange SA

Vodafone Group Plc

Proximus SA

Swisscom AG

TDC A/S

KPN NV

Position

Vesting
schedule

Position

Vesting
schedule

Position 1

200%

Position 5

100%

Position 2

175%

Position 6

75%

Position 3

150%

Position 7
and below

No vesting

Position 4

125%

The table above provides the vesting schedules of the TSR
part in the LTI plans. Please note that the peer group used for
relative TSR reflects the relevant competitive market in which
KPN competes for investor preference. As such, it is different
from the employment market peer group, which is used to
determine pay levels for the CEO and members of the Board of
Management. The peer group may be adjusted if an individual
company no longer qualifies as a relevant peer company. The
vesting schedule for financial and non-financial targets other
than TSR is: threshold performance 25%, on-target
performance 100% and maximum performance 200%.

Performance incentive zone
In line with the design of KPN’s LTI plan, the target
performance ranges for vesting of the LTI plan comprise a
threshold below which no shares vest, an on-target
performance level at which shares vest at on-target and a
maximum at which the shares vest at the maximum level.
Once vested, the shares will have to be held for a minimum
period of two years. An exception to this rule is made for shares
that are sold to cover income tax obligations in relation to the
vested shares typically the value taxed as income equals
the number of shares vested multiplied by the share price at
the time of vesting. An external remuneration consultant
calculates the end-of-year TSR peer group position and the
number of shares vested based on this target, and makes
certain that calculations are performed objectively and
independently. The TSR is calculated based on the threemonth average share price at the start and end of the
performance period.
Discretion both upwards and downwards can be applied by the
Supervisory Board if the outcome of the LTI incentive scheme
would produce an unfair result or if the outcome would not be
considered to reflect the basic objectives and principles of pay
as outlined in this section.
The LTI plan rules contain a change of control clause, which
provides for immediate vesting at 100% (irrespective of the
actual performance at that moment, whether higher or lower)
and lifting of the blocked period normally applicable, to enable
the member of the Board of Management to dispose of their
shares in the situation of a change of control. The immediate
vesting at 100% will be pro rata for the time passed in the plan
during the vesting period of three years (i.e. 1/3 in year one, 2/3
in year two, full in year three).
Actual pay-out levels
Weighting

Outcome

Vesting
percentage

TSR

25%

150%

37.50%

EPS

25%

200%

50%

FCF

25%

141.42%

35.36%

Energy

12.5%

200%

25%

Reputation

12.5%

200%

25%

Total vesting

172.86%

The LTI plan 2015 vests in April 2018 and final TSR
measurement for the 2015 LTI share grant was conducted as per
February 15, 2018.
The vesting of the LTI plan 2015 is primarily based on both the

70

How we safeguard long-term value
Remuneration Report

Financial report

solid relative financial performance and the strong
performance on non-financial metrics such as energy
reduction and reputation. The targets for the LTI plan 2015
were set at the grant date in 2015. During the vesting period
2015-2017 KPN was able to offset the revenue pressure and
delivered stable adjusted EBITDA as well as growing free cash
flow and growing dividend per share. This solid performance is
also reflected in KPN’s third relative position in terms of TSR
performance in the peer group of 12 European
telecommunications companies.
In 2017, KPN became the industry leader in the category
Telecommunications of the Dow Jones Sustainability World
Index (DJSI). This strong performance, including a year-onyear reduction in energy consumption despite an exponential
increase in data traffic, is reflected in KPN’s sustainability
performance during the vesting period 2015-2017. Next to that,
customer satisfaction in the Netherlands (NPS) improved
during the vesting period 2015-2017 from on average -3 at the
end of 2014 to on average +8 at the end of 2017. In addition,
KPN’s reputation as concluded by the Reputation Institute
(the world’s leading research and advisory firm for reputation)
improved further during the vesting period.

Appendices

All members of the Board (including the CEO) are appointed
for a period of four years, which is in line with the requirements
of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code.
Severance arrangements
Severance payments for the CEO and members of the Board of
Management are aligned with the revised Dutch Corporate
Governance Code (2016) and equal one-year base salary. For
Mr. van der Post, an exception to this policy was agreed, with a
severance payment of 18 months base salary only during his first
term of appointment, as accepted under the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code in place at the time of his appointment.

Claw-back clause
The Supervisory Board has the discretionary authority to
recover variable pay awarded on the basis of incorrect financial
or other data.
Benefits
Pensions
Members of the Board of Management are eligible for a
defined contribution pension plan with a contribution based
on the fiscal defined contribution table that corresponds to
a retirement age of 67, an annual accrual rate of 1.875% and a
pension accrual capped at EUR 103,317 base pay. Board
members receive a fixed gross allowance equal to the
associated pension contribution paid by the company prior to
2015 for the base pay part above EUR 103,317.
Additional arrangements
The additional arrangements, such as life insurance coverage,
expense allowances, use of smartphones and company car
provisions needed for the execution of their roles, are broadly
in line with other companies of similar size and complexity,
as well as with market practice.
Loans
Company policy does not allow loans or guarantees to be
granted to members of the Board of Management.
Terms of employment
Members of the Board of Management have a service
agreement for a definite period of time with the exception of
Mr. Blok, who has an employment contract for an indefinite
period of time.

71

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Remuneration Report
Change in composition of the Board of Management
Following the EGM on 6 December 2017, the Supervisory Board
will appoint Mr. Maximo Ibarra as member and chairman of the
Board of Management of KPN as of the AGM on 18 April 2018.
Mr. Ibarra will earn a base salary of EUR 935,000 per year and
is also eligible for KPN’s short-term variable cash incentive
and KPN’s long-term variable incentive. To ascertain a smooth
transition, he will be engaged for transition activities
and professional services as of the announcement date
(20 October 2017). For this, as approved by the EGM on 6
December 2017, Mr. Ibarra will receive monthly advisory fees
totaling EUR 195,000 in cash, EUR 200,000 in cash subject to
a retention period and EUR 200,000 in shares subject to a
retention period.
Outlook for 2018
The current remuneration policy will be reviewed in 2018 to
ensure that the underlying principles continuously support
KPN’s short- and long-term strategy, with a specific focus on
simplicity and long-term value creation. Any material
adjustments (if any) will be subject to prior approval by the
General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2019.

D. Supervisory Board pay policy
The Committee is responsible for reviewing and, if appropriate,
recommending changes to the pay of the Supervisory Board.
Any recommended changes to Supervisory Board pay must be
submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders for approval.
Members receive an additional fee if a meeting is held in a
country other than the member’s country of residence.
Shareholdings in the company held by Supervisory Board
members serve as a long-term investment in the company and
help to align their interest with those of KPN’s other
shareholders. No Supervisory Board member is granted shares
as a form of pay. As a policy, the company does not provide
loans or guarantees to its Supervisory Board members.

72

The table below shows the pay-out to Supervisory Board
Members and fixed Committee fees on an annual basis.
Amounts in EUR
Chairman Supervisory Board

Annual fees
100,000

Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board

70,000

Member Supervisory Board

60,000

Chairman Audit Committee

20,000

Member Audit Committee

10,000

Chairman Strategy & Organization Committee

12,500

Member Strategy & Organization Committee

7,500

Chairman Remuneration Committee

10,000

Member Remuneration Committee

5,000

Chairman Nominating & Corporate Governance
Committee

10,000

Member Nominating & Corporate Governance
Committee

5,000

See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Personnel expenses) for details on actual remuneration of the
Supervisory Board.
Peter F. Hartman (Chairman of the Remuneration Committee)
Duco W. Sickinghe
Claudia J.G. Zuiderwijk

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

Appendices

73

Contents

74

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

Appendices

Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss
Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
General Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statement
Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss	
Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

76
77
78
80
81
82
89
99
119

Corporate Financial Statements
Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss
Corporate Statement of Financial Position
Notes to the Corporate Financial Statements

123
124
126

Other Information
Combined Independent Auditor’s Report
Annex to the Combined Independent Auditor’s Report

131
138

75

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements

Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss
For the year ended 31 December
€ million

Notes

2017

2016

Revenues

[4]

6,497

6,801

Other income
Total revenues and other income
Cost of goods & services
Personnel expenses

[5]

Information Technology / Technical Infrastructure
Other operating expenses
Depreciation, amortization and impairments

[6]
[10/11]

Total operating expenses
Operating profit
Finance income
Finance costs
Other financial results
Financial income and expenses

[7]

Share of the profit/ loss (-) of associates
Profit before income tax from continuing operations
Income taxes

[8]

Profit for the year from continuing operations
Profit/ Loss (-) for the year from discontinued operations

[2]

Profit for the year
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests

1

5

6,498

6,806

1,923

2,131

1,151

1,175

502

517

616

554

1,424

1,545

5,616

5,922

882

884

69

112

-338

-641

28

112

-241

-417

1

-1

642

466

-157

-96

485

370

-2

430

483

800

–

7

483

793

Basic (continuing operations)

0.10

0.07

Diluted (continuing operations)

0.10

0.07

Profit attributable to equity holders of the company
Earnings per ordinary share after taxes attributable to equity holders of
the company for the year in EUR

[9]

Basic (discontinued operations)

–

0.10

Diluted (discontinued operations)

–

0.10

Basic (total, including discontinued operations)

0.10

Diluted (total, including discontinued operations)

0.10

0.17
0.17

76

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

Appendices

Consolidated Financial Statements

Consolidated Statement of Other
Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December
€ million

Notes

Profit for the year

2017

2016

483

800

-85

Other comprehensive income, net of tax
Other comprehensive income to be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions
are met:
Net gain or loss (-) on cash flow hedges

[15]

14

Currency translation differences

[15]

–

20

Fair value adjustment available-for-sale financial assets

[12]

16

-263

30

-328

12

-57

Net other comprehensive income/ loss (-) not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent
periods

12

-57

Other comprehensive income/ loss (-) for the year, net of tax

42

-385

525

415

525

408

–

7

525

415

Net other comprehensive income/ loss (-) to be reclassified to profit or loss
in subsequent periods
Items of other comprehensive income not to be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Retirement benefits remeasurements

Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax, attributable to:
Equity holders of the company
Non-controlling interests

Total comprehensive income/ loss (-) attributable to equity holders of the company arises from:
Continuing operations
Discontinued operations

527

-22

-2

430

77

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements

Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
Assets
€ million

Notes

31 December 2017 31 December 2016

Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment

[10]

5,811

5,969

Intangible assets

[11]

3,341

3,250

21

24

Available-for-sale financial assets

[12.1]

20

1,909

Derivative financial instruments

Associates
[12.3]

168

298

Deferred income tax assets

[8]

947

1,091

Trade and other receivables

[13]

141

61

10,449

12,602

61

47
766

Current assets
Inventories
Trade and other receivables

[13]

762

Income tax receivables

[8]

1

–

1,071

–

Available-for-sale financial assets

[12.1]

Other current financial assets

[12.1]

329

140

Cash and cash equivalents

[14]

856

1,179

3,080

2,132

1

2

13,530

14,736

Assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale
Total assets

78

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

Appendices

Equity and Liabilities
€ million

Notes

31 December 2017

31 December 2016

Equity
Share capital
Share premium
Other reserves
Retained earnings

168

171

8,445

8,651

-393

-451

-5,951

-5,859

Equity attributable to holders of perpetual capital securities

1,089

1,089

Equity attributable to equity holders of the company

3,358

3,601

–

–

[15]

3,358

3,601

Borrowings

[12.2]

7,578

7,897

Derivative financial instruments

[12.3]

328

197

Non-controlling interests
Total equity
Non-current liabilities

Deferred income tax liabilities

[8]

1

–

Provisions for retirement benefit obligations

[16]

218

262

Provisions for other liabilities and charges

[17]

103

89

Other payables and deferred income

[18]

62

62

8,290

8,507

Current liabilities
Trade and other payables

[18]

1,782

1,839

Borrowings

[12.2]

18

735

Derivative financial instruments

[12.3]

–

1

Income tax payables

[8]

16

4

Provisions for other liabilities and charges

[17]

66

49

1,882

2,628

Total liabilities

10,172

11,135

Total equity and liabilities

13,530

14,736

79

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
€ million

Notes

Balance at 31 December 2015

Subscribed
ordinary shares

Equity
attributable
to equity
Nonholders
of the controlling
company interests

Total
equity

171

9,847

-125

-6,000

1,089

4,982

69

5,051

Profit for the year

–

–

–

793

–

793

7

800

Other comprehensive income for
the year

–

–

-328

-57

–

-385

–

-385

Total comprehensive income for
the year

–

–

-328

736

–

408

7

415

Share-based compensation

4,270,254,664

Equity
attributable
to holders of
perpetual
capital
Share
Share
Other Retained
securities
capital premium reserves earnings

–

–

–

-10

–

-10

–

-10

Sold treasury shares

[5]

–

–

14

–

–

14

–

14

Paid coupon perpetual hybrid
bond (net of tax)

–

–

–

-51

–

-51

–

-51

Dividends paid

–

–

–

-460

–

-460

-26

-486

–

-1,196

3

–

–

-1,193

–

-1,193

Acquisitions

–

–

–

-89

–

-89

-57

-146

Other

–

–

-15

15

–

–

7

7

Total transactions with owners,
recognized directly in equity

–

-1,196

2

-595

–

-1,789

-76

-1,865

171

8,651

-451

-5,859

1,089

3,601

–

3,601

Capital repayment

[15]

Balance at 31 December 2016

4,270,254,664

Profit for the year

–

–

–

483

–

483

–

483

Other comprehensive income for
the year

–

–

30

12

–

42

–

42

Total comprehensive income for
the year

–

–

30

495

–

525

–

525

–

–

–

-7

–

-7

–

-7

–

–

12

–

–

12

–

12

-3

-206

–

–

–

-209

–

-209

–

–

–

-51

–

-51

–

-51

Share-based compensation

[5]

Sold treasury shares
Share buyback and cancellation

-67,410,260

Paid coupon perpetual hybrid
bond (net of tax)
Dividends paid

–

–

–

-513

–

-513

–

-513

Other

–

–

16

-16

–

–

–

–

-67,410,260

-3

-206

28

-587

–

-768

–

-768

4,202,844,404

168

8,445

-393

-5,951

1,089

3,358

–

3,358

Total transactions with owners,
recognized directly in equity

Balance at 31 December 2017

80

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

Appendices

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 31 December
€ million

Notes

Profit before income tax from continuing operations

2017

2016

642

466

241

417

6

7

Adjustments for:
– Net financial expense

[7]

– Share-based compensation

[5]

– Share of the profit/ loss (-) of associates
– Depreciation, amortization and impairments

[10/11]

– Other non-cash income and expense
– Changes in provisions (excluding deferred taxes)

-1

1

1,424

1,545

4

-23

-4

-68

Changes in working capital relating to:
– Current assets

-26

42

– Current liabilities

-43

-163

71

110

Dividends received

[12.1]

Income taxes paid/received

-13

50

Interest paid

-349

-460

Net cash flow from operating activities

1,952

1,924

Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets

[12.1]

Acquisition of subsidiaries and associates (net of acquired cash)
Disposal of subsidiaries and associates (net of cash)
Investments in software
Investments in other intangible assets
Investments in property, plant and equipment
Disposals of property, plant and equipment
Changes in other current financial assets

[12.1]

Other

890

31

-165

-37

3

3

-307

-276

-1

-26

-832

-917

2

10

-190

435

-7

1

-607

-776

Dividends paid

-513

-487

Paid coupon perpetual hybrid bonds

-67

-67

–

1,235

Net cash flow from investing activities

Proceeds from borrowings
Repayments of borrowings and settlement of derivatives

[12]

-872

-2,137

Capital repayment

[15]

–

-1,193

Share repurchase

[15]

-209

–

-4

-72

-1,665

-2,721

-320

-1,573

-2

-7

Other
Net cash flow from financing activities
Total net cash flow from continuing operations
Net cash flow from operating activities from discontinued operations
Net cash flow from investing activities from discontinued operations

-3

1,183

Total net cash flow from discontinued operations

-5

1,176

-325

-397

-1

–

Changes in cash and cash equivalents
Exchange rate differences
Net cash and cash equivalents at 1 January

1,178

1,575

Net cash and cash equivalents at 31 December

852

1,178

Bank overdrafts
Cash and cash equivalents

[14]

4

1

856

1,179

81

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements

General Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements
[1] General information
Koninklijke KPN N.V. (KPN or the company) was incorporated
in 1989 and is domiciled in the Netherlands. KPN is registered
at the Chamber of Commerce in The Hague (file no. 02045200).
The address of KPN’s registered office is Maanplein 55, 2516 CK,
The Hague. KPN’s shares are listed on Euronext Amsterdam.
KPN is a leading telecommunications and ICT provider in the
Netherlands, offering fixed and mobile telephony, fixed and
mobile broadband internet and TV to retail consumers. KPN is
market leader in the Netherlands in infrastructure and network
related ICT solutions to business customers. KPN provides
wholesale network services to third parties and operates an
IP-based infrastructure for international wholesale customers
through KPN’s US-based subsidiary iBasis.
The Financial Statements were approved for issuance by
both the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management on
23 February 2018 and are subject to adoption by the Annual
General Meeting of Shareholders on 18 April 2018.

[2] Summary of significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The Consolidated Financial Statements of KPN have been
prepared:
 in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRS) and
with the statutory provisions of Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch
Civil Code;
 under the historical cost convention, except for availablefor-sale financial assets and financial assets and financial
liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value
through profit or loss; and
 on a going concern basis.
Summary of significant accounting policies
The general accounting policies as applied are described
below. Significant accounting policies are described in the
Notes to these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Changes in accounting policies and disclosures
KPN applies new standards and amendments issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), when
effective and endorsed by the European Union. KPN has not
early adopted any of these standards.

82

For 2017, only the amendment to IAS 7 Statement of Cash
Flows has had an impact on KPN. The amendment of IAS 7,
effective as of 1 January 2017, requires additional disclosures on
changes in assets and liabilities arising from financing activities,
including disclosures of cash flow and non-cash flow
movements (see Note 12).
Future implications of new and amended standards and
interpretations
The IASB has issued several new standards and amendments
with an effective date of 1 January 2018 or later. Only those with
an expected material impact on KPN’s financial performance
and/or the presentation thereof are discussed.
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’
This new standard introduces new guidance on the recognition
and measurement of revenues and also provides a model for
the sale of some non-financial assets that are not an output of
a company’s ordinary business activities. KPN will adopt IFRS
15 retrospectively and will restate the 2017 financial information
for comparison purposes in the 2018 Consolidated Financial
Statements. In 2018, KPN will record a cumulative transitional
adjustment at 1 January 2017, the date of initial application.
In 2017, KPN implemented for IFRS 15 a IT solution for collecting
and integrating data from various sources. New IFRS 15 related
processes and controls are implemented. Teams consisting of
members of the core project team and representatives from
Finance and Business functions, IT and source system experts
have validated the results. The core project team has ensured
that IFRS 15 is well understood and implemented consistently
across the company.
Key impact of IFRS 15
In 2017, KPN completed the analysis of the cumulative
transitional adjustment as at 1 January 2017. Accounting for all
customer contracts in progress but not yet completed or
starting after the date of application has been analyzed and
revised for IFRS 15 impact, if any. The following impact of IFRS
15 will be visible in the 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements.
The revenue profile of approximately 60% of KPN’s revenues is
impacted by the transition to IFRS 15. Under IFRS 15, service
revenues will be EUR 317m lower in 2017, mainly driven by the
reclassification of handset sale revenues to non-service
revenues and proceeds from handset sales via partners in the
indirect channel no longer being recognized as service
revenues. Based on our analysis equity as at 1 January 2017 will
increase by EUR 222m, and at 31 December 2017 by EUR 127m.
Net income for the year 2017 will decrease with EUR 95m and
EBITDA with EUR 113m under IFRS 15. From 2018 onwards, we
expect that service revenues will be at a structurally lower level

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

compared to previously reported under IAS 18 due to the
reclassification of handset revenues and different accounting
treatment of handset sales through the indirect channel as
explained in more detail below. The transition to IFRS 15 will
have no impact on the cash flow from operations and on the
overall contract profitability.
Main differences between IAS 18 and IFRS 15
See the tables on page 84 for the IFRS 15 impact on KPN’s
Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 2017 and on KPN’s
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. In March 2018,
KPN will issue a more detailed analysis of the impact of the
restatements by segment. The most significant differences with
KPN’s current accounting policies include the following:
 Postpaid mobile contracts via KPN shops and website:
Under our current accounting policy, revenue related to the
sale of handsets in postpaid mobile contracts is recognized
up to the non-contingent cash received upfront, i.e. the
amount the customer pays for the handset when it is
delivered to the customer. Under IFRS 15, additional revenue
will be allocated to the handset at the start of the contract.
The amount of revenue is calculated based on the relative
standalone selling price of the handset, regardless of the
actual contract pricing. As an example, compared to the
current accounting policies, a postpaid subscription with a
handset will result in recognition of higher non-service
revenues upon delivery of the handset to the customer and
lower subscription fees (service revenues) during the
subscription period. On adoption of IFRS 15, this change
will pull forward revenue in the periods being restated, and
KPN will recognize a contract asset for all open contracts at
1 January 2017.
 Postpaid mobile contracts via third parties:
Under IFRS 15 handset-related dealer fees result in an
unbilled receivable on the statement of financial position
that will decrease when instalments are billed to the
end-customer, i.e. handset-related fees will no longer be
expensed as incurred as part of the costs of goods and
services (see Note 6). The handset instalment payments are
no longer accounted for as service revenues, but netted
against the receivable. Under our current accounting policy,
transaction-related dealer fees are expensed as incurred as
part of the costs of goods and services. Under IFRS 15,
transaction related dealer fees paid to acquire or retain
subscribers are capitalized and recognized on a straight-line
basis over the contract term of the underlying customer contract.
 Installation service consumer customers:
Under our current accounting policy, no revenue is
recognized if the installation service is provided free of
charge. Installation services offered to consumer customers
are generally considered a separate performance obligation.
Under IFRS 15, revenue is then allocated to the installation
service at the start of the contract, based on its relative

Appendices

standalone selling price, regardless of the actual contract
pricing. The revenue recognition profile will change with
upfront recognition of revenue for the installation service and
a corresponding reduction in ongoing wireline service
revenue over the contract period. The difference between
the amount of revenue recognized and the amounts charged
to the customer will be recognized as a contract asset.
 Transition phase of projects for business customers:
Under our current accounting policy transition costs relating
to fixed-price contracts involving managed ICT services are
capitalized and subsequently amortized to profit or loss on a
straight-line basis during the period the services are
provided. Under IFRS 15, these transition costs are already
recognized in the P&L during the project phase and also
corresponding revenue is recognized earlier if the transition
project is a separate performance obligation to which costs
and revenues are allocated.
 Variable consideration:
Revenue for variable consideration, including revenue related
disputes, is currently recognized when it is probable that
these will flow to the company and under IFRS 15 only when
it is highly probable. As a consequence, such revenue may be
recognized later when this higher threshold is met.
 Recognized contract assets will be included in the calculation
of the provision for expected credit losses under IFRS 9 as
set out on page 85.
 There will be a corresponding effect on income tax in relation
to the above impacts.
 Consumer credit legislation:
As of 1 May 2017, KPN is legally required to treat a handset
combined with a postpaid subscription as a consumer loan
under the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (Wft, Wet op het
financieel toezicht) if the consumer customer repays the
handset in monthly instalments and the credit amount is
above EUR 250. The separate legal entity KPN Finance B.V.
is the contract party in the loan agreement in both direct and
indirect channels. The outstanding consumer loans in KPN
Finance B.V. amount to EUR 114m at 31 December 2017.
These consist of EUR 1m unconditional receivables classified
in ‘Trade and Other Receivables’ and EUR 113m for
conditional receivables that are not yet invoiced and are
eliminated upon KPN group consolidation under IAS 18.
As set out above, IFRS 15 considers this a contract asset for
both consumer and business customers. As of 1 January 2018,
the contract with consumer customers for the instalment
payments of the handset has changed in both direct and
indirect channels, resulting in an unconditional IFRS 9
receivable. Taken into account the low interest rates and
contract duration, these receivables do not include a
significant financing component.

83

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements
IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 impact on KPN’s Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss
2017
As published

€ million, unless indicated otherwise
Service revenues
Non service revenues
Other income

IFRS 9
Adjustment

IFRS 15
Adjustment

2017
Restated

6,208

–

-317

5,891

289

–

182

471

1

–

–

1

6,498

–

-135

6,363

Cost of goods & services

1,923

–

-35

1,888

Personnel expenses

1,151

–

–

1,151

IT/TI

502

–

–

502

Total

Other operating expenses

616

–

13

629

Depreciation, amortization & impairments

1,424

–

–

1,424

Total operating expenses

5,616

–

-22

5,594

Operating profit

882

–

-113

769

Finance income and expenses

-241

–

–

-241

1

–

–

1

642

–

-113

529

Income taxes

-157

–

18

-139

Profit/Loss (-) for the period from continuing operations

485

–

-95

390

-2

–

–

-2

483

–

-95

388

- Basic (continuing operations)

0.10

–

-0.02

0.08

- Diluted (continuing operations)

0.10

–

-0.02

0.08

Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures
Profit/Loss (-) before income tax from continuing operations

Profit/Loss (-) for the period from discontinued operations
Profit/Loss (-) for the period
Earnings per ordinary share after taxes attributable to equity
holders for the period (in EUR)

- Basic (discontinued operations)

0.00

–

–

0.00

- Diluted (discontinued operations)

0.00

–

–

0.00

- Basic (total, including discontinued operations)

0.10

–

-0.02

0.08

- Diluted (total, including discontinued operations

0.10

–

-0.02

0.08

IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 impact on KPN’s Consolidated Statement of Financial Position

€ million
Trade and other receivables
Contract assets¹
Contract costs
Deferred income tax assets

1 January
2017
As published
766
–
–

IFRS 9
IFRS 15
Adjustment Adjustment
-7
–
–

-5
325
42

1 January
2017
Restated

31 December
2017
As published

IFRS 9
Adjustment

IFRS 15
Adjustment

31 December
2017
Restated

754
325
42

762
–
–

-7
–
–

-5
269
33

750
269
33

1,091

2

-63

1,030

947

2

-45

904

Total assets

14,736

-5

296²

15,027

13,530

-5

249²

13,774

Total equity

3,601

-5

222

3,818

3,358

-5

127

3,480

77

–

124

15,027

13,530

–
-5

124
249³

13,774

Contract liabilities
Total equity and liabilities

–
14,736

–
-5

77
296³

1 Under IFRS 9, a provision for expected credit losses will be recorded on the IFRS 15 contract assets. This transition impact is presented as part of the IFRS 15
impact.
2 Total assets figures include IFRS 15 adjustments regarding other line items of EUR -3m as of 1 January 2017 and EUR -3m as of 31 December 2017.
3 Total equity and liabilities figures include IFRS 15 adjustments regarding other line items of EUR -3m as of 1 January 2017 and EUR -2m as of 31 December 2017.

84

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’
This standard introduces new requirements for classification
and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting of
financial instruments and is effective as of 1 January 2018.
KPN will adopt IFRS 9 retrospectively (except hedge
accounting which will be applied prospectively) and will restate
the 2017 financial information for comparison purposes in the
2018 Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2018, KPN will
record a cumulative transitional adjustment at 1 January 2017
to revise historical financial data.
IFRS 9 impacts the valuation of certain contract assets which
will be recognized as a result of IFRS 15.
The most significant differences of IFRS 9 with KPN’s current
accounting policies are:
 Available-for-sale financial assets:
Fair value movements recorded in OCI are no longer recycled
through the P&L (other financial results) for all assets
recognized on the balance sheet as of 1 January 2018. This
means that a decrease in the fair value which is considered
permanent or a sale of these assets will no longer impact the
P&L. There was no permanent decrease in fair value in 2017.
 Provision for trade receivables and contract assets:
In addition to the provision for overdue trade receivables
measured under the current accounting policy, a provision is
recorded for the expected loss on trade receivables and
contract assets not yet overdue.
 Hedge effectiveness testing of the cross-currency swaps and
interest rate swaps:
Cross-currency basis spreads are no longer included in the
risk designation. This may lead in the future to differences in
the amounts recorded for hedge ineffectiveness.
See table on page 84 for the IFRS 9 impact on KPN’s reported
2017 results and the Corporate Statement of Financial Position.

Appendices

IFRS 16 ‘Leases’
This standard introduces on balance sheet accounting for (almost)
all leases. For lessees, the distinction between financial leases
(‘on balance’) and operating leases (‘off balance’) is removed
whereas for lessors, these two types of leases remain in place.
KPN is preparing for decisions on interpretations of the IFRS 16
accounting standard. As the new KPN accounting policies have
not been finalized yet, no reliable estimate of the impact is
available.
IFRS 16 requires the lease liability to be recognized at
discounted value and, among other factors, requires that the
likelihood of early terminations or expected use of renewal
options are taken into account as well. Therefore, the amounts
KPN will recognize as lease liability and right of use asset upon
transition are not expected to be equal to the currently
reported off balance sheet obligation related to operating
leases as disclosed in Note 20. IFRS 16 will increase KPN’s
EBITDA due to the replacement of operating lease expenses
with amortization charges of the lease assets and the interest
expenses related to the lease liabilities. The impact on net
profit is expected to be limited. The ‘on balance’ recognition
of KPN’s lease liabilities is not expected to have an impact on
KPN’s financing arrangements which do not contain any
financial covenants.
KPN is implementing an IFRS 16 solution within its IT landscape.
The majority of KPN’s lease contracts is captured in one of KPN’s
four main lease management systems. These lease management
systems will interface IFRS 16 relevant contract data to KPN’s
central IFRS 16 calculator (part of the IFRS 16 solution). Leases at
subsidiary companies are also prepared for inclusion in the IFRS
16 calculator. All of KPN’s lease contracts are under review and
data hereof is enriched, either in the lease management
systems or directly in the IFRS 16 calculator, for required IFRS
16 data such as appropriate discount rates.
IFRS 16 has been endorsed and will be effective as of 1 January
2019. KPN will not early adopt this standard in 2018. KPN
intends to apply IFRS 16 using the full retrospective approach.

85

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements
Basis of consolidation
KPN’s Consolidated Financial Statements include the financial
results of its subsidiaries and incorporate KPN’s share of the
results from associates.
Subsidiaries are all entities directly or indirectly controlled by KPN.
Control is defined as the power over an entity, i.e. the ability to
govern the financial and operating policies, resulting in obtaining
the gains or losses from the entity’s activities. Subsidiaries are fully
consolidated from the date on which control is obtained by KPN
and are deconsolidated from the date on which KPN’s control
ceases. All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealized
results on transactions with subsidiaries are eliminated.
Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without change
of control that do not result in loss of control are accounted
for as equity transactions. Gains or losses on disposals to
non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for
sale as well as liabilities directly associated herewith are stated
at the lower of carrying amount (book value) and fair value less
costs of disposal if their carrying amount is recovered
principally through a sale transaction rather than through
continuing use. If fixed assets are transferred to held for sale,
depreciation and amortization ceases. A disposal group
classifies as a ‘discontinued operation’ based on its significance
to the KPN Group.
Some results (and cash flows) may continue to arise following
the unwinding of remaining positions of E-Plus (sold in 2014)
and BASE Company (sold in 2016). In 2017 the result from
discontinued operations amounted to EUR -2m and in 2016
EUR 430m, of which EUR 367m result on disposal (minus
transaction costs) of BASE Company and EUR 63m tax
adjustments E-Plus.
Foreign currency translation
The Financial Statements are presented in euro (EUR), which is
KPN’s presentation currency and functional currency. All amounts
are rounded to millions unless stated otherwise.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into euro
using the exchange rates applicable at transaction date. At
reporting date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies are translated to euro using the rates at
reporting date. Exchange rate differences are recognized in
profit or loss except when these differences are related to
qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment
hedges in which case the exchange rate differences are
recorded in OCI. Exchange rate differences on non-monetary
assets and liabilities are reported as part of the fair value gain or
loss from that asset or liability. Exchange rate differences arising
from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities,
of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as
hedges of such investments are recognized in OCI.
86

Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of
a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign
entity and translated at the closing rate at the reporting date.
Subsidiaries
For consolidation purposes, the results and financial position of
subsidiaries are translated to euro at closing rate of the date of
the financial position (assets and liabilities) or at the average
exchange rates applicable for the specific reporting period
(income and expenses). All resulting exchange differences are
recognized in OCI.
Statement of Cash Flows
The Statement of Cash Flows is prepared using the indirect
method. Cash flows denominated in currencies other than EUR
are translated at average exchange rates. Cash flows relating to
interest and taxes on profits and tax deductions relating to
interest on perpetual hybrid bonds are included in the cash
flow from operating activities. The consideration paid in cash
for acquired subsidiaries is included in the cash flow from
investing activities net of cash acquired. Cash flows resulting
from the disposal of subsidiaries are disclosed separately, net of
cash sold. Investments in property, plant and equipment, which
are financed by financial leases, are not included in the cash
flow used in investing activities.
Significant accounting estimates, judgments and
assumptions made by management
These are evaluated continuously and are based on historic
experience and other factors, including expectations of future
events thought to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may deviate from the estimates applied.
Estimates are revised when material changes to the underlying
assumption occur.
The accounting estimates, judgments and assumptions
deemed significant to KPN’s financial statements relate to:
Determination of deferred tax assets for losses carry forward
and provisions for tax contingencies

Note 8

Determination of value in use of cash-generating units for goodwill
impairment testing

Note 11

Assessments of exposure to credit risk and financial
market risks
The ‘more likely than not’ assessment required to determine
whether or not to recognize a provision for idle cables,
which are part of a public electronic communications network

Note 12.4

Notes
17, 20

In preparing the Financial Statements, KPN has applied the
concept of materiality to the presentation and level of
disclosures. Only essential and mandatory information is
disclosed which is relevant to an understanding by the reader
of these Financial Statements.

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

How we safeguard long-term value

Appendices

[3] Segment reporting
The Netherlands
Commercial comprises the segments Consumer and Business.
Operations represents the segments Wholesale and Network,
Operations & IT (NOI). For general information on these
segments read more in chapters Shareholder value, Integrated
Products & Services and State-of-the art networks and ICT
infrastructure. The Netherlands’ Other segment includes the
results of KPN’s Corporate Center and eliminations.
iBasis
Through iBasis, KPN is a leading player in the international
wholesale voice market in terms of minutes carried. iBasis offers
a comprehensive portfolio of voice termination and data
services for many of the world’s largest fixed and mobile
operators, as well as voice over broadband.
Other activities
Other activities comprise KPN Holding, remaining activities
abroad and eliminations.
Changes organizational structure
Comparative financial information for 2016 has been restated
to reflect a number of developments in KPN’s internal
management reporting. In terms of 2016 operating expenses,
the main impact is visible in lower operating expenses for NOI
and higher costs for the Wholesale segment.

The main restatements are:
 KPN moved six data centers, focused on offering colocation
services, to a separate entity (‘NL|DC’) within Wholesale.
As per KPN’s policy, intercompany revenues are minimized;
therefore revenues generated by NL|DC via the sales channel
of Business remain recorded at Business. The related
expenses moved from NOI to Wholesale.
 Reallocation of certain isolated customer related expenses
from the cost of goods and services at Business to IT/TI at
NOI as a better fit with the nature of these expenses and the
way these are managed.
 Operating expenses for certain new business activities were
moved from NOI to Business, where the related revenues
were already recognized.
Segment performance
KPN has limited the intercompany transactions and
settlements to those relevant for determining the tax return
of KPN, for instance intercompany settlements with several
subsidiaries, and those necessary for the capitalization of
project costs.
The EBITDA of Consumer, Business and Wholesale represents
the contribution margin of these segments and the EBITDA of
NOI consists mostly of operating expenses. Due to the fact that
KPN neither allocates interest expenses to segments nor
accounts for taxes in the segments, the disclosure is limited to
operating profit for the year.
For an explanation of incidental transactions included in
Revenues, Other income and EBITDA, see Appendix 1.

Geographical information
(continuing operations, excluding deferred taxes and derivative financial instruments)
The Netherlands

The Americas

Other

Total

€ million

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

Non-current assets

9,264

11,129

67

81

2

2

9,333

11,212

Intangibles

3,294

3,195

47

55

–

–

3,341

3,250

PPE

5,791

5,945

20

23

–

1

5,811

5,969

Revenues & Other income

5,849

6,023

648

778

1

5

6,498

6,806

87

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements
Segmentation 2017
Commercial
€ million

Notes Consumer

Operations

Business Wholesale

NOI

Total The
Other3 Netherlands

iBasis

Other KPN Group
activities3 Consolidated

Statement of Profit or Loss
External revenues1

[4]

Other income
Inter-division revenues
Total
Operating expenses

[5/6]

EBITDA2

3,133

2,154

540

18

3

5,848

648

1

–

–

–

2

–

2

–

-1

6,497
1

19

44

136

1

-174

26

57

-83

–

3,152

2,198

676

21

-171

5,876

705

-83

6,498

-1,183

-1,005

-214

-1,072

-102

-3,576

-681

65

-4,192

1,969

1,193

462

-1,051

-273

2,300

24

-18

2,306

-182

-65

-20

-1,141

-5

-1,413

-10

-1

-1,424

1,787

1,128

442

-2,192

-278

887

14

-19

882

Total assets

4,821

2,853

892

9,640

-6,970

11,236

288

2,006

13,530

Total liabilities

4,890

2,832

883

9,531

-15,556

2,580

164

7,428

10,172

DA&I

[10/11]

Operating profit

Segmentation 2016 (restated)
Commercial
€ million

Notes Consumer

Operations

Business Wholesale

NOI

Total The
Other3 Netherlands

iBasis

Other KPN Group
activities3 Consolidated

Statement of Profit or Loss
External revenues1

[4]

Other income
Inter-division revenues
Total

3,121

2,255

625

15

5

6,021

779

1

–

–

1

2

-1

2

–

3

6,801
5

22

54

134

–

-181

29

88

-117

–

3,143

2,309

760

17

-177

6,052

867

-113

6,806

-1,263

-929

-252

-1,125

-81

-3,650

-844

117

-4,377

1,880

1,380

508

-1,108

-258

2,402

23

4

2,429

-208

-76

-20

-1,168

-15

-1,487

-57

-1

-1,545

Operating profit

1,672

1,304

488

-2,276

-273

915

-34

3

884

Total assets

4,225

2,751

898

9,782

7,325

24,981

334

-10,579

14,736

Total liabilities

4,352

2,730

888

9,523

-14,844

2,649

198

8,288

11,135

Operating expenses

[5/6]

EBITDA2
DA&I

[10/11]

1 External revenues mainly consist of rendering of services.
2 Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation, amortization and impairments.
3 Including eliminations.

88

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

How we safeguard long-term value

Appendices

Consolidated Financial Statements

Notes to the Consolidated Statement
of Profit or Loss
[4] Revenues
€ million

[5] Personnel expenses
2017

2016

€ million

6,208

6,566

283

214

Other revenues

6

21

Total revenues

6,497

6,801

Rendering of services
Sale of goods

Accounting policy: Revenues
Revenue is measured at fair value of the consideration
received or receivable for the sale of goods and services.
Revenues are presented net of value-added tax, rebates
and discounts and after eliminating sales within the
Group. Revenue is recognized when it is probable that
the economic benefits associated with a transaction will
flow to KPN and the amount of revenue and associated
costs can be measured reliably.
Rendering of services includes fees for usage of KPN’s
network and facilities, for example monthly subscription
fees, and revenues from customer specific ICT solutions.
Revenue is recognized upon rendering the service.
Revenue from IT development is recognized using the
percentage-of-completion method.
Sale of goods includes proceeds from hardware sales.
Revenue is generally recognized when the product is
shipped to the customer.
Contracts with customers that include multiple
deliverables (e.g. handset sale combined with a mobile
telecommunications contract) must be separated into
individual elements, each with its own separate revenue
contribution. The amount of revenue is then determined
based on the relative fair value. If the fair value of the
delivered item exceeds the cash received at the time of
delivery, revenue is recognized up to the non-contingent
cash receivable.

2017

2016

Salaries and wages

879

872

Retirement benefits

88

77

Social security contributions

114

106

Additional labor capacity

117

158

Own work capitalized

-112

-105

Other
Total personnel expenses

65

67

1,151

1,175

In addition, there were employee redundancy costs which
are not included in personnel expenses but in other operating
expenses. See Note 17 ‘Provisions for other liabilities and
charges’ for information on employee redundancy costs.
31 December
2017

31 December
2016

Consumer

2,518

2,726

Business

3,511

3,302

Wholesale

221

215

5,583

5,747

Number of own personnel (FTE) per
segment

Network Operations & IT
iBasis

295

323

Other

1,147

1,217

13,275

13,530

Total FTE

Share plans
KPN has granted shares (equity-settled) and share-based
awards (cash-settled) on its shares to members of the Board of
Management and senior management: the Performance Share
Plan (PSP). The conditionally granted PSP award will vest after
three years if the employee is still employed by KPN. Vesting is
based on individual vesting of 25% relative TSR versus peer
group, 25% Free Cash Flow, 25% Earnings Per Share, 12.5% on
sustainability/environmental targets and 12.5% on stakeholder/
customer targets. Vesting of non-financial targets will be
subject to achieving a cumulative net profit during the vesting
period of three years (i.e. a qualifier for vesting). The list of
companies included in the peer group and the vesting
schedule can be found under ‘Long-term Incentives’ in the
‘Remuneration Report’ section.
The main features of the awards granted under the PSP and
Restricted Share Plan to KPN management are summarized on
the next page.

89

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements

Board of Management
2014

X

2015

X

Maximum term

Settlement type1

Vesting period

Holding period
after vesting
of/until

X

5 years

Equity²

3 years

2 years

X

3 years

Cash

3 years

–

5 years

Equity²

3 years

2 years
–

Senior Management

3 years

Cash

3 years

X (CCO)³

X

4 years

Equity²

4 years

–

2016

X

5 years

Equity²

3 years

2 years

2017

X

X

3 years

Cash

3 years

–

X

5 years

Equity²

3 years

2 years

X

3 years

Cash

3 years

–

1 The cash-settled share awards will be settled in cash and no holding restrictions apply. An exception to the holding period for equity-settled plans is made
with respect to shares that were sold upon vesting to cover the tax obligation on the vested shares. After vesting, the holder is able to sell a number of
unconditional granted shares only up to the amount necessary to settle the wage taxes liability relating to the profit made on the stock compensation plan.
Wage tax in the Netherlands is generally 52% of the total vested amount..
2 Including deferred dividend.
3 In April 2015, KPN’s Chief Commercial Officer, Mr. Van der Post was granted shares which partially vest in 2016, 2017 and 2019 if he is still employed by KPN.
For this plan, no other performance measures are applicable.

The total compensation expense associated with the share
plans was EUR 11m in 2017 (2016: EUR 7m) and the related
liability (for cash-settled shares) on 31 December 2017 was
EUR 13m (2016: EUR 12m). This liability is included under Other
payables and deferred income. For the 2014 Share Plan and
share-based awards, the service conditions were met in the
year 2017. The intrinsic value at vesting was EUR 8m.
The following table presents the number of shares and
share-based awards in thousands under the share plans.
Total Granted/
31 Dec additional Exercised/
2015 vesting1-2
Vested Forfeited

Total Granted/
31 Dec additional Exercised/
20163 vesting2
Vested Forfeited4

Total -of which:
31 Dec
Non20173
vested

2014 Share-based awards Sr. Man.

2,948

241

–

-315

2,874

–

-1,976

-898

–

–

2014 Shares BoM/Sr. Man.

1,503

123

–

-161

1,465

–

-1,007

-458

–

–

2015 Share-based awards Sr. Man.

2,091

189

–

-64

2,216

–

–

-143

2,073

2,073

2015 Shares BoM

865

78

–

–

943

–

–

–

943

943

2015 Shares CCO

195

13

-49

–

159

–

-106

–

53

53

2016 Share-based awards Sr. Man.

–

2,529

–

–

2,529

–

–

-170

2,359

2,359

2016 Shares BoM

–

900

–

–

900

–

–

–

900

900

2017 Share-based awards Sr. Man.

–

–

–

–

–

1,205

–

-40

1,165

1,165

2017 Shares BoM

–

–

–

–

–

2,347

–

-41

2,306

2,306

1 On the basis of a 100% grant. The equity-settled share numbers do not include any deferred dividend during the vesting period. The deferred dividend during
the vesting period will be granted in additional shares.
2 At grant date, the fair value is calculated using a Monte Carlo Simulation model except for the restricted shares. In April 2017, the fair value was EUR 2.43 (2016
grant: EUR 3.17) for the 2017 share-based award (cash-settled) and EUR 2.68 (2016 grant: EUR 3.17) for the 2017 equity-settled share grant for the Board of
Management (excluding deferred dividend).
3 At 31 December 2017, the fair value of each cash-settled share-based award was measured, using recent strategic plans, forecasts and a Monte Carlo
Simulation model, based on the most recent available share price of KPN and its performance compared with peer companies at the moment of valuation (i.e.
closing share prices as at 31 December 2017). At 31 December 2017, the fair value is EUR 4.89 (2016: EUR 4.24) for the 2015 share-based award, EUR 2.29 (2016:
EUR 2.52) for the 2016 share-based award and EUR 2.50 for the 2017 share-based award.
4 At the end of 2017, KPN held the 3rd position with respect to the 2015 share grant and at the end of 2016, KPN held the 6th position with respect to the 2014
share grant. This position and the outcomes of the other targets of this plan leads to 172.86% vesting in April 2018 of the 2015 share grant. Final TSR
measurement for the 2015 share grant was conducted in February 2018.

90

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

How we safeguard long-term value

Appendices

The fair value of each award at the grant date is determined using the following assumptions:
€ million

2017 PSP

2016 PSP

Risk-free interest rate based on euro government bonds for remaining time to maturity of 2.7 years

-0.1%

-0.1%

Expected dividend for KPN (based on one year’s historical daily data preceding the date of award)

2.6%

2.5%

Expected volatility (PSP grant based on 2.7 years’ historical daily data) used for TSR
Share price at date of award (closing at grant date)

26.3%

27.8%

EUR 2.79

EUR 3.45

The following paragraphs provide detail on the actual
remuneration of the Board of Management and the
Supervisory Board. Please refer to the Remuneration Report
for the executive pay policy.

Details of actual remuneration
The remuneration of the Board of Management representing
the costs incurred by the company measured under IFRS
principles.
STI1 LTI: Share awards2
(EUR)
(EUR)

Pension costs3 &
social security
(EUR)

Total
(EUR)

Name

Year

Salary
(EUR)

E. Blok

2017

850,000

859,222

1,082,299

269,492

3,061,013

2016

850,000

530,840

998,976

263,673

2,643,489

2017

642,917

366,604

544,618

123,750

1,677,889

2016

625,000

237,590

514,575

122,078

1,499,243

2017

700,000

362,866

700,798

179,962

1,943,626

2016

700,000

266,100

647,640

170,828

1,784,568

J.C. de Jager
F.H.M. van der Post
J.F.E. Farwerck
Total current members

2017

610,833

332,477

498,478

143,876

1,585,664

2016

575,000

239,400

454,324

139,475

1,408,199

2017

2,803,750

1,921,169

2,826,193

717,080

8,268,192

2016

2,750,000

1,273,930

2,615,515

696,054

7,335,499

1 Actual STI relates to performance in the current year but paid out in the following financial year. Please refer to the ‘Short-Term Incentives’ section in the
Remuneration Report section for the actual pay-out levels per target in 2017.
2 The amounts in the table represent the cost recognized for shares in 2017 and 2016 based on their fair values at grant date. The fair value of the share-based
award is recorded as cost over the vesting period. Please refer to the ‘Long-Term Incentives’ section in the Remuneration Report section for a further
explanation. The amount for Mr. Van der Post includes his long-term compensation in cash.
3 In the pension costs, the costs for survivor’s pension, disability coverage, administration as well as the gross allowances are included. The fixed gross allowance
(for the base pay part above EUR 100,000) in 2017 was EUR 171,000 for Mr. Blok (2016: EUR 171,000), EUR 76,000 for Mr. De Jager (2016: EUR 76,000),
EUR 119,000 for Mr. Van der Post (2016: EUR 119,000), and EUR 82,000 for Mr. Farwerck (2016: EUR 82,000).

91

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements
The following table summarizes the shares/share-based awards granted to members of the Board of Management.
Number of shares/share-based awards

Grant date
E. Blok

J.C. de Jager

F.H.M. van der Post

J.F.E. Farwerck

Granted
as of
1 January
2017

Vested
in 2017²

Granted
As of
or forfeited 31 December
in 2017¹-²
2017

Pre-tax fair
value on
grant date
(EUR)³

Pre-tax market
value on vesting
date or end of
lock-up in 2017
(EUR)

End of lock-up
period

13/4/2017

–

–

412,889

412,889

1,106,543

–

13/4/2022

14/4/2016

361,297

–

–

361,297

1,050,319

–

14/4/2021

16/4/2015

378,878

–

–

378,878

1,104,904

–

16/4/2020

10/4/2014

501,575

-369,632

-131,943

–

1,090,141

1,030,646

10/4/2019

13/4/2017

–

–

210,492

210,492

564,119

–

13/4/2022

14/4/2016

177,106

–

–

177,106

514,862

–

14/4/2021

16/4/2015

185,724

–

–

185,724

541,618

–

16/4/2020

26/9/2014

245,871

-181,193

-64,678

–

534,383

505,220

10/4/2019

13/4/2017

–

–

226,684

226,684

607,513

–

13/4/2022

14/4/2016

198,359

–

–

198,359

576,645

–

14/4/2021

16/4/2015

208,012

–

–

208,012

606,614

–

16/4/2020

1/3/2015⁴

159,283

-106,188

–

53,095

566,177

447,500

N/a.

13/4/2017

–

–

202,396

202,396

542,421

–

13/4/2022

14/4/2016

162,938

–

–

162,938

473,674

–

14/4/2021

16/4/2015

170,867

–

–

170,867

498,290

–

16/4/2020

10/4/2014

226,201

-166,697

-59,504

–

491,633

464,802

10/4/2019

1 The shares granted to the Board of Management represent 30% of the total number of shares and share-based awards granted in 2017 to all employees.
The 2017 grant numbers do not include any deferred dividend during the vesting period.
2 The deferred dividend during the vesting period will be additionally granted in shares.
3 Value is calculated by multiplying the number of share awards by the fair value at grant date.
4 Next to the vesting of shares, also EUR 148,750 vested of Mr. Van der Post’s long-term cash compensation.
5 All shares are in the vesting period or lock-up period and are conditional.

See page 57 for stock ownership of members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board.

Supervisory Board
The table below shows the actual fee received by each member
of the Supervisory Board.
Amounts in €

Membership
fee 2017

Committee
fee 2017

Total 2017

Total 2016

D.W. Sickinghe

100,000

22,500

122,500

123,929

D.J. Haank

70,000

12,500

82,500

84,643

P.A.M. van Bommel

60,000

20,000

80,000

77,143

C.J. García
Moreno Elizondo

60,000

10,000

70,000

70,000

C.J.G. Zuiderwijk

60,000

17,500

77,500

77,500

P.F. Hartman

60,000

22,500

82,500

80,357

J.C.M. Sap

60,000

10,000

70,000

70,000

E. Overbeek

15,000

1,875

16,875

–

485,000

116,875

601,875

583,572

Total

92

Accounting policy: Share-based compensation
For equity-settled plans, the fair value of shares granted to
employees is measured at grant date. For cash-settled
plans, the fair value of the liability for the awards granted is
remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement date.
The costs of share-based compensation plans are
determined based on the fair value of the shares and the
number of shares expected to vest. On each balance date,
KPN determines whether it is necessary to revise the
expectation of the number of shares that will vest. The fair
value is recognized as personnel expense in profit or loss
over the vesting period of the shares against an increase in
equity in case of equity-settled share-based compensation
plans and against recognition of a liability in case of
cash-settled share-based compensation plans.

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

How we safeguard long-term value

[6] Other operating expenses
In 2017, Other operating expenses comprised, among others,
a net addition to the restructuring provision of EUR 86m (2016:
EUR 45m). For more details, see Note 17.
Auditor’s fees
The fees listed below relate to the services provided to KPN
and its consolidated group entities by Ernst & Young
Accountants LLP, as well as by other Dutch and foreign-based
EY individual partnerships and legal entities, including their tax
services and advisory groups:

€ million

2017

2016

Financial statements audit fees

4.0

3.8

Other assurance fees

0.8

1.0

Total audit fees

4.8

4.8

Tax fees

0.2

0.2

Total

5.0

5.0

The total fees of Ernst & Young Accountants LLP charged to
KPN and its consolidated group entities amounted to EUR
4.8m in 2017 (2016: EUR 4.8m). The financial statements audit
fees include the fees for professional services rendered for the
audit of KPN’s annual financial statements and the annual
statutory financial statements of subsidiaries or services that
are normally provided by the auditor in connection with the
audits. The other assurance fees include the fees incurred for
assurance and related services that are reasonably related to

Appendices

the performance of the audit or review of KPN’s financial
statements., such as revenue and IT-related assurance services
and regulatory-related assurance services.
Accounting policy: Operating expenses
Operating expenses are divided in direct cost (cost of goods
and services) and indirect cost (IT/TI, personnel expenses
and other operating expenses).
Cost of goods and services are costs incurred in the context
of a sales transaction and include subscriber acquisition
and retention costs and traffic expenses. These costs are
expensed as incurred. The cost of a handset is expensed
when the handset is sold (as incurred), both as individual
sale or as component of a multiple deliverable arrangement
in combination with a subscription.
IT/TI stands for Information Technology and Technical
Infrastructure. IT expenses relate to KPN’s IT environment
and include licenses and maintenance expenses for
software and/or IT hardware when not directly related to a
sales transaction. TI expenses are expenses related to
KPN’s fixed and mobile networks.
Personnel expenses include all expenses related to KPN’s
workforce, both related to own employees and external
personnel.
Other operating expenses include expenses related to
marketing and communication, billing and collection,
housing and facilities.

[7] Financial income and expenses
€ million

Notes

Finance income
Interest on borrowings
Interest on provisions for retirement benefit
obligations

[16]

Interest on other provisions
Tender premium
Finance costs

2017

2016

69

112

-327

-402

-7

-7

-4

-10

–

-222

-338

-641

Result on sale of equity instruments

[12.1]

30

–

Amortizable part of hedge reserve

[15]

-16

-10

39

114

-28

-28

Amortization discontinued fair
value hedges
Derivative financial instruments
not qualified for hedge accounting

[12]

Exchange rate differences

3

-2

Other

–

38

Other financial results
Total

28

112

-241

-417

Finance income included a dividend received from Telefónica
Deutschland of EUR 70m (2016: EUR 110m). Interest on
borrowings decreased by EUR 75m, which was mainly related
to a lower gross debt position. Interest on borrowings included
a non-cash amount of EUR 12m (2016: EUR 17m) relating to
debt issue costs and similar costs, which are amortized over
the remaining life of the respective bonds using the effective
interest rate method.
In 2016, KPN completed a tender offer, in which KPN
repurchased an aggregate principal amount of EUR 1.0bn
across five Eurobonds with maturities between 2017 and 2024.
The bond tender resulted in a EUR 160m loss in 2016 (tender
premiums of EUR 222m and EUR 4m accelerated amortization
recorded in Finance costs and EUR 66m gain from
discontinued fair value hedges recorded in Other financial
results). In 2016, line item Other in Other financial results
included a gain of EUR 29m from the sale of KPN’s stake in
Jasper Wireless.

93

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements
[8] Taxation
The Netherlands
The tax book loss, which is recognized as a result of the sale of
E-Plus in 2014, offsets KPN’s taxable income in the Netherlands
in the current and coming years. Dividends received, not
qualifying as specific capital repayments, and/or capital gains
realized (proceeds above tax book value) on KPN’s
shareholding in TEFD are subject to Dutch corporate income
tax. The summary of the remaining tax book loss is provided
on the next page.
KPN has an agreement with the Dutch tax authorities with
respect to the application of the Dutch innovation box tax
regime. This is a facility under Dutch corporate income tax
law whereby profits attributable to innovation are taxed at
an effective rate of 5%. This tax rate will increase to 7% as from
2018. The application of the innovation box resulted in a
benefit of EUR 14m over 2017 (2016: EUR 17m).
Reggefiber Group mainly consists of one fiscal unity (which is
not part of KPN’s main fiscal unity) and has pre-fiscal unity tax
losses carry forward. At 31 December 2017, a DTA of EUR 54m
(2016: EUR 72m) was recorded, of which EUR 20m (2016:
EUR 36m) relates to recognized tax losses carry forward.

See Note 19 Business combinations and other changes in
consolidation for the impact of the acquisitions, which are
separately liable for income taxes and for which no loss carry
forward is available.
Income tax expense
2017

2016

-27

-9

Deferred taxes

-130

-87

Income tax (charge)/benefit from
continuing operations

-157

-96

€ million
Current tax

The reconciliation from the Dutch statutory tax of 25% (2016:
25%) to the effective tax rate of 24.5% (2016: 20.6%) is explained
in the table below. The tax expenses increased with EUR 61m
from EUR 96m in 2016 to EUR 157m in 2017, mainly due to an
improved PBT (EUR 43m more tax expenses), less available
future tax benefits due to tax (rate) adjustments in the US of
EUR 5m (included in deferred tax related to current year) and
the implementation of the transition tax in the US of EUR 7m.

641
(2016: 467)

-157 (24.5%)

-160 (25%)

(2016: -96; 20.6%)

(2016: -117; 25%)

-1 (0.2%)
(2016: -3; 0,6%)

+7 (-1.1%)
(2016: 2; -0.4%)

-7 (1.0%)

0 (0.0%)

(2016: 0; 0.0%)

(2016: 5; -1.1%)

Transition
tax US

Deferred
tax related to
prior years

-7 (1.0%)

-3 (0.5%)

(2016: 0; 0.0%)

(2016: 0; 0.0%)

Deferred tax
related to
current year

Other

+14 (-2.2%)
(2016: 17; -3.7%)

Profit before
income tax
from
continuing
operations
excluding
associates
and joint
ventures

94

Taxes at
Dutch
statutory
tax rates

Tax rate
differences of
foreign
operations

Not taxable
income,
non deductible
expenses and
liq. Losses

Innovation tax
facilities
current year

Income tax
benefit/
(charge) from
continuing
operations

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

How we safeguard long-term value

Appendices

Net DTA of the Dutch fiscal unity with regard to the book loss on the sale of E-Plus
Net DTA

Realized

Unrealized

Offset by DTL

Net Loss

911

518

500

-107

3,644

-7

-48

1

40

-28

31 December 2016

904

470

501

-67

3,616

Movement 2017

-155

-161

–

6

-620

31 December 2017

749

309

501

-61

2,996

Other1

Offset
by DTL

Total³-⁴
1,069

€ million
31 December 2015
Movement 2016

Deferred tax positions:
Deferred tax assets
€ million
31 December 2015
Income statement benefit/(charge)
Transfer to current tax
Tax charged to OCI²
Other (exchange, reclassification,
change in consolidation)
31 December 2016
Income statement benefit/(charge)
Transfer to current tax
Tax charged to OCI²
Other (exchange, reclassification,
change in consolidation)
31 December 2017

Tax loss &
other carry
forwards

Unrealized
liquidation
losses

596

552

45

188

58

132

-502

64

-34

102

-28

-10

-54

47

87

-124

–

–

–

–

–

–

-124

–

–

29

–

–

1

–

30

Bonds & Restriction on
hedges depreciation

Fiscal
goodwill

29

–

–

–

–

–

–

29

565

518

176

160

48

79

-455

1,091

-89
-94
–

-17
–
–

-8
–
-5

-19
–
–

-10
–
–

52
–
2

46
–
–

-45
-94
-3

-2

–

–

–

–

–

–

-2

380

501

163

141

38

133

-409

947

1 Other deductible temporary differences include revenue recognition of EUR 71m (2016: EUR 15m). KPN entered into negotiations with the Dutch tax authorities
to align the revenue recognition with IFRS15 (read more in Note 2). Such a redefined approach as per 2017 may result in a temporary difference as from 2017
onwards, without implications on cash taxes to be paid for periods ending FY17. This temporary difference will be reversed upon implementation of IFRS 15.
2 Tax charged to OCI relates mainly to the hedge reserve.
3 Of which EUR 131m to be recovered within 12 months (2016: EUR 117m).
4 Recoverability depending on future taxable results.

Deferred tax liabilities

€ million

Taxable temporary differences
Software
development

Goodwill
DTL Accelerated
recapture1 depreciation depreciation

PPA³

Offset against
deferred
tax assets
Other

Total²

31 December 2015

183

107

121

46

52

40

-502

47

Income statement (benefit)/charge

-16

27

-59

16

-5

25

47

35

Tax charged to Equity

–

–

–

–

–

-17

–

-17

Tax charged to OCI

–

-95

–

–

–

–

–

-95

Other (exchange, reclassification,
change in consolidation)

-3

28

–

–

3

2

–

30

164

67

62

62

50

50

-455

–

31 December 2016

-15

-18

-40

16

-7

7

46

-11

Tax charged to Equity

–

–

–

–

–

-17

–

-17

Tax charged to OCI

–

12

–

–

–

–

–

12

Other (exchange, reclassification,
change in consolidation)

–

–

–

-8

29

-4

–

17

149

61

22

70

72

36

-409

1

Income statement (benefit)/charge

31 December 2017

1 This relates to the unrealized capital gains on the stake in Telefónica Deutschland which are considered taxable in the Netherlands (recapture rule).
2 Of which EUR 1m to be recovered within 12 months (2016: EUR 0m).
3 See Note 19 Business combinations and other changes in consolidation for the impact of the acquisitions.

95

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements
Tax loss carry forward
31 December 2017

€ million
Koninklijke KPN – corporate tax1
Other
Total KPN Group

31 December 2016

Tax loss carry
forward

Maximum
deferred
tax asset

Recognized
deferred
tax asset

Tax loss carry
forward

Maximum
deferred
tax asset

Recognized
deferred
tax asset

1,385

346

346

2,026

507

507

177

46

34

258

72

58

1,562

392

380

2,284

579

565

1 Part of the tax book loss which is recognized as a result of the sale of E-Plus to TEFD is included in this amount. Of the remaining total tax book loss of initially
EUR 4bn, EUR 1.2bn is recorded in the DTA for tax loss carry forward and EUR 2bn is recorded in the DTA for unrealized liquidation losses. The offset of losses
with future profits is limited to 9 years.

Expiration of the available tax loss carry forward and recognized tax assets
31 December 2017

31 December 2016

Tax loss carry
forward

Maximum
deferred
tax asset

Recognized
deferred
tax asset

Tax loss carry
forward

Maximum
deferred
tax asset

Recognized
deferred
tax asset

2018

–

–

–

2

–

–

2019

3

1

1

5

1

1

2020

2

1

1

21

5

5

€ million

2021

9

2

2

22

5

5

2022

16

4

4

N/a

N/a

N/a

Later

1,531

384

372

2,233

568

554

1

–

–

1

–

–

1,562

392

380

2,284

579

565

Unlimited
Total KPN Group

96

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

Accounting policy: Taxation
Current income tax
The current income tax charge is calculated in accordance
with the prevailing tax regulations and rates, taking into
account non-taxable income and non-deductible expenses.
The current income tax expense reflects the amount for the
current reporting period that KPN expects to recover from
or pay to the tax authorities. Current income tax related to
items recognized directly in equity/OCI is recorded in equity/
OCI and not in profit or loss. KPN’s management periodically
evaluates positions taken in the tax returns regarding
situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to
interpretation and establishes provisions when deemed
appropriate.
Deferred income taxes
Deferred income tax positions are recognized for temporary
differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and
their carrying values. DTAs are recognized for deductible
temporary differences, the carry forward of unused tax
credits and any unused tax losses. DTAs are recognized only
to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will
be available against which the temporary differences can be
utilized. Both the recognized and unrecognized DTAs are
reassessed on each reporting date based on available
projections. If future taxable profits are insufficiently
available, derecognition may become inevitable unless
certain exceptions can be applied. DTAs are recorded for
deductible temporary differences associated with
investments in subsidiaries and associates and are recorded
only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary

Appendices

differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable
profit will be available against which the temporary
differences can be utilized.
DTLs are recognized for all taxable temporary differences
except when they arise from the initial recognition of
goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a
business combination and, at the time of the transaction,
affects neither the profit or loss reported in the Statement of
Profit or Loss nor the taxable profit or loss. Also, no DTLs are
recorded for taxable temporary differences associated with
investments in subsidiaries and associates when the timing
of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled
and it is probable that the temporary differences will not
reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax positions are
stated at nominal value and are measured at the corporate
income tax rates KPN expects to be applicable in the year
when the asset is realized or liability is settled based on
enacted or substantially enacted tax laws.
DTAs and DTLs are netted if there is a legally enforceable
right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities
and the DTAs/DTLs relate to income taxes levied by the
same taxation authority on the same taxable entity or if, in
case of different taxable entities, there is an intention either
to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis, or to
realize the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously, in
each future period in which significant amounts of deferred
tax liabilities or assets are expected to be settled or
recovered.

97

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements
[9] Earnings per share

Earnings per ordinary share after taxes attributable to
equity holders of the company for the year

The following table shows the income and share data used in
the calculations of the basic and diluted EPS.
€ million and number of shares

2017

2016

Basic (continuing operations)

0.10

0.07

in €

2017

2016

485

370

Diluted (continuing operations)

0.10

0.07

-2

430

Basic (discontinued operations)

0.00

0.10

483

800
Diluted (discontinued operations)

0.00

0.10

-

-7

Deduction for perpetual capital securities

-51

-51

B
 asic (total, including discontinued
operations)

0.10

0.17

Adjusted profit (loss) attributable to
ordinary shareholders of the company

432

742

D
 iluted (total, including discontinued
operations)

0.10

0.17

Profit for the year from
continuing operations
Profit for the year from
discontinued operations
Profit for the year
Profit attributable to non-controlling
interests

Weighted average number of
subscribed ordinary shares
Dilution effects: options and non-vested
shares
Weighted average number of
subscribed ordinary shares including
dilution effects

4,225,436,268 4,259,762,228
4,748,779

3,581,632

4,230,185,047 4,263,343,860

Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to
assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Share options and non-vested shares are regarded to have
potential dilutive effects on the ordinary shares.
Coupons on the perpetual capital securities are deducted from
the profit attributable to equity holders, since the perpetual
hybrid bonds represent equity but do not constitute profit
attributable to ordinary holders.
In the total basic earnings per share EUR 0.03 (2016: EUR 0.02)
tax expense is included.

98

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

Appendices

Notes to the Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position
[10] Property, plant and equipment
Statement of changes in property, plant and equipment
€ million
1 January 2016

Land and buildings

Plant and
equipment

Other tangible
non-current
assets

Assets under
construction

Total

525

5,230

38

208

6,001

Investments

40

861

13

11

925

Depreciation

-67

-902

-15

–

-984
-24

Impairments and retirements

-4

-12

–

-8

Other

-5

1

-5

–

-9

Change in consolidation

–

60

–

–

60
5,969

489

5,238

31

211

Cost

Closing net book value

1,866

9,553

89

211

11,719

Accumulated depreciation/impairments

-1,377

-4,315

-58

–

-5,750
5,969

489

5,238

31

211

Investments

31 December 2016

42

712

14

70

838

Depreciation

-63

-902

-15

–

-980

Impairments and retirements

-3

-8

–

-14

-25

Other

–

-3

1

–

-2

Change in consolidation

1

5

4

1

11

Closing net book value

466

5,042

35

268

5,811

Cost

1,880

9,500

98

268

11,746

Accumulated depreciation/impairments

-1,414

-4,458

-63

–

-5,935

466

5,042

35

268

5,811

31 December 2017

The book value of property, plant and equipment (PPE) of
which KPN as the lessee is the beneficial owner under financial
lease programs amounted to EUR 59m (2016: EUR 32m).
The book value of PPE of which KPN is the lessor under
Accounting policy: PPE
PPE are valued at cost less depreciation and impairment. The
cost include direct costs (materials, direct labor and work
contracted out) and directly attributable overhead costs.
Asset retirement obligations are capitalized as part of the
cost of tangible fixed assets and expensed as either
depreciation over the assets’ estimated useful life or as
impairment charges.
PPE are depreciated using the straight-line method, based on
estimated useful life, taking into account residual value. Land
is not depreciated. PPE are reviewed for impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the book value of the assets concerned may not be
recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount
by which the assets’ book value exceeds its recoverable
amount. Impairments are reversed if and to the extent that
the impairment no longer exists. The recoverable amount is

operating lease programs amounted to EUR 109m (2016:
EUR 174m). The non-cancellable future minimum lease
payments receivable related to these operating leases for 2018
are EUR 2m, which matures within one month.
defined as the higher of an assets’ fair value less costs of
disposal and its value in use.
Estimated useful lives of the principal PPE categories:
PPE category
Land
Buildings
Network equipment
Network infrastructure
Vehicles
Office equipment

Depreciation period
No depreciation
14 to 33 years
3 to 7 years
10 to 30 years
10 years
4 to 10 years

The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed at
least annually and adjusted if appropriate. Interest is
capitalized as an increase in PPE if the construction of assets
takes a substantial period of time and the amount is material.

99

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements
[11] Intangible assets
Statement of changes in intangible assets with finite lives and goodwill
€ million

Computer
Software in
Customer
software development relationships

Goodwill

Licenses

1,428

1,180

463

93

1 January 2016
Investments

Other

Total

260

26

3,450
314

38

–

326

-50

–

–

Change in consolidation

–

–

–

–

16

–

16

Amortization

–

-143

-307

–

-29

-7

-486

Impairments

-45

–

-5

-1

–

–

-51

7

–

–

–

–

–

7

Closing net book value

1,428

1,037

477

42

247

19

3,250

Cost

2,237

2,083

1.021

42

351

73

5,807

Accumulated amortization/impairments

-809

-1,046

-544

–

-104

-54

-2,557

31 December 2016

1,428

1,037

477

42

247

19

3,250
439

Subsequent PPA, exchange rate differences
and other

106

24

296

11

2

–

Change in consolidation¹

Investments

–

–

14

–

57

6

77

Amortization

–

-85

-291

–

-27

-7

-410

Impairments

–

–

-9

–

–

–

-9

Subsequent PPA, exchange rate differences
and other

-5

–

–

–

–

-1

-6

Closing net book value

1,529

976

487

53

279

17

3,341

Cost

2,325

1,385

994

53

406

76

5,239

-796

-409

-507

–

-127

-59

-1,898

1,529

976

487

53

279

17

3,341

Accumulated amortization/impairments
31 December 2017

1 The change in consolidation mainly include the customer bases of QSight IT, DearBytes, Solcon and Cam IT.

Goodwill per CGU
31 December
2017

31 December
2016

Consumer

769

764

Business

679

578

Wholesale

40

40

iBasis¹

41

46

Total

1,529

1,428

€ million

1 The change in goodwill relates to exchange rate differences.

100

Goodwill impairment tests
The annual impairment test as at 31 December 2017 did not
indicate that the book value of KPN’s goodwill is not
recoverable. At 31 December 2017, the market capitalization of
KPN was significantly higher than the book value of its equity.
A test has been performed of the recoverable amount of the
book value of each cash-generating unit (CGU), based on their
value-in-use, which was determined by using the discounted
cash flow method. Key assumptions used in the cash flow
projections are estimated EBITDA, Capex, change in working
capital and pre-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC)
and are not significantly different from those used in prior year.
The cash flow projections are management’s best estimate
based on the most recent business plans and extrapolation to
terminal values. The WACC is calculated using a Capital Asset
Pricing Model.
For all four CGUs, the annual impairment tests in 2017 and
2016 resulted in positive headroom as at 31 December 2017 and
31 December 2016.

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

How we safeguard long-term value

Appendices

Key assumptions
CGU

Terminal sales growth¹

Capex intensity

EBITDA margin

Discount rate

Consumer 2017

0%

20% – 23%

48% – 60%

7% – 8%

Business 2017

0%

10% – 17%

30% – 37%

7% – 8%

Wholesale 2017

0%

21% – 35%

55% – 64%

7% – 8%

iBasis 2017

0%

0% – 1%

2% – 4%

9% – 11%

1 Estimates after 10 years

Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions
Since the headroom of the Dutch CGUs is more than sufficient,
no sensitivity analysis is disclosed for these CGUs. A reasonable
possible change in assumptions would not result in an impairment.
The following table gives an indication of value change of iBasis
as at the end of 2017:

A negative sensitivity for an individual assumption would not
directly result in an impairment, considering the margin of EUR
12m between the recoverable amount (approximately EUR
75m) and the carrying amount of iBasis, but then headroom
would be reduced to nil.

Value change iBasis
€ million

-0.5pps

+0.5pps

Terminal sales growth

(2) – (4)

2 –4

Capex intensity

10 – 12

(10) – (12)

EBITDA margin

(10) – (12)

10 – 12

3–4

(3) – (4)

Discount rate

Accounting policy: goodwill and intangibles with
finite lives
The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair
value of the identifiable net assets acquired in a business
combination is recorded as goodwill. Goodwill on acquisitions
of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill
on acquisition of associates is included in investments in
associates.
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purpose of impairment
testing. The allocation is made to those CGUs or groups of
CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the
business combination. Goodwill is carried at cost less
accumulated impairment losses and tested for impairment
annually or whenever there is an indication that goodwill
may be impaired. Goodwill is impaired if the recoverable
amount is lower than the book value. The recoverable
amount is defined as the higher of the fair value less costs
of disposal and the value in use of the CGUs concerned.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed in the
event that circumstances that triggered the impairment
have changed.
Licenses and software are valued at cost less amortization
and impairment. Amortization is calculated using the
straight-line method over the economic useful life and
commences at the date that services can be offered
(available for use).

Internally developed and acquired software, not being an
integral part of property, plant and equipment, is capitalized
on the basis of the costs incurred, which include direct costs
and directly attributable overhead costs incurred.
Other intangible assets such as customer relationships and
trade names acquired in business combinations are
capitalized at their fair values at acquisition date and are
amortized using the straight-line method over the economic
useful life.
Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the book
value of the asset may not be recoverable. An impairment
loss is recognized for the amount by which the book value
of the licenses exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairments
are reversed if and to the extent that the impairment no
longer exists.
Intangible assets not yet available for use are tested annually
for impairment or whenever KPN has an indication that the
intangible fixed assets may be impaired. For example,
licenses are tested as part of a CGU as licenses do not
generate independent cash flows.
The amortization period of the intangible assets with finite
lives are for licenses 5 to 20 years, software 3 to 5 years and
other intangible assets 4 to 20 years.

101

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements
[12] Financial assets and financial liabilities
Summary of the financial assets and liabilities at carrying amount and fair value, classified per category.
31 December 2017
€ million

31 December 2016

Carrying amount

Fair value

Carrying amount

Fair value

Financial assets FVPL
Other current financial assets

[12.1]

329

329

140

140

Derivatives

[12.3]

168

168

298

298

[13]

521

521

430

430

Loans and receivables
Trade and other receivables
Cash and cash equivalents

[14]

856

856

1,179

1,179

[12.1]

1,091

1,091

1,909

1,909

2,965

2,965

3,956

3,956

[12.3]

328

328

198

198

[12.2]

7,596

8,479

8,632

9,548

[18]

1,328

1,328

1,403

1,403

9,252

10,135

10,233

11,149

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap)

−

3

−

3

Derivatives (interest rate swap)

−

165

−

165

1,071

−

−

1,071

Available-for-sale financial assets
Total financial assets
Financial liabilities FVPL
Derivatives
Loans and borrowings
Borrowings
Trade and other payables
Total financial liabilities
Fair value measurement hierarchy as at 31 December 2017 (€ million)
Financial assets at FVPL

Available-for-sale financial assets
Listed securities
Unlisted securities

−

−

20

20

1,071

168

20

1,259

Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap)

−

293

−

293

Derivatives (interest rate swap)

−

35

−

35

−

328

−

328

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap)

−

84

−

84

Derivatives (interest rate swap)

−

214

−

214

1,902

−

−

1,902

−

−

7

7

1,902

298

7

2,207

Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap)

−

142

−

142

Derivatives (interest rate swap) and other

−

56

−

56

−

198

−

198

Total assets
Financial liabilities at FVPL

Total liabilities
Fair value measurement hierarchy as at 31 December 2016 (€ million)
Financial assets at FVPL

Available-for-sale financial assets
Listed securities
Unlisted securities
Total assets
Financial liabilities at FVPL

Total liabilities

102

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

Fair value estimation
Level 1: Fair value of instruments traded in active markets and
based on quoted market prices. Level 2: instrument is not
traded in an active market and fair value is determined by using
valuation techniques based on maximum use of observable
market data for all significant inputs. Level 3: one or more of the
significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the
fair value is estimated using models and other valuation
methods. The valuation of available-for-sale unlisted securities
is based on a discounted cash flow model.
[12.1] Financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets
The decrease of the available-for-sale financial assets (“AFS FA”)
was mainly due to the sale of part of the stake in Telefónica
Deutschland (TEFD). On 13 March 2017, KPN exchanged 6% of
TEFD shares with a fair value of EUR 740m for approximately
1.4% of Telefónica’s share capital. Subsequently, KPN sold the
Telefónica shares during the first half of 2017, resulting in
EUR 741m proceeds. In addition, KPN sold 25.5 million TEFD
shares (0.9%) through various transactions during the fourth
quarter of 2017. The fair value of KPN’s 8.6% stake in TEFD was
EUR 1,071m per 31 December 2017 (2016: EUR 1,867m for a
15.5% stake). In 2017, a net gain of EUR 49m in the fair value of
the stake in TEFD has been recorded through Other
Comprehensive Income. In 2017, KPN received a dividend from
TEFD of EUR 70m (2016: EUR 110m) which has been recorded
as Finance income.
In 2017, KPN sold its 11% equity share in Tecnocom, a listed
Spanish ICT services company for an amount of EUR 38m to
Indra Sistemas SA. The gain on the sale of EUR 30m has been
recorded as Other financial results (Note 7).
Other AFS FA include minority stakes of which the largest is
Actility SA, a provider of network solutions and managed
information systems for the Internet of Things market with a
carrying value of EUR 7m (2016: EUR 3m).
Other current financial assets
Other current financial assets include investments in shortterm money market funds for EUR 329m (2016: EUR 140m),
which are held at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL). These
funds have low volatility, with an investment objective of
preservation of principal.

Appendices

Accounting policy:
AFS financial assets and financial assets at FVPL
AFS FA include equity investments which, after initial
measurement, are subsequently measured at fair value.
Unrealized gains or losses are recognized in OCI. When the
investment is derecognized, the cumulative gain is
recognized in P&L. When the investment is impaired, the
cumulative loss is also recognized in P&L. A significant or
prolonged decline for recognizing an impairment on
available-for-sale equity instruments is defined by 20% or
9 months measured at reporting date. Financial assets at
FVPL are recognized at fair value with net changes in fair
value presented as finance costs / income. These assets
are classified as current or non-current depending on the
expected timing of realization.
[12.2] Financial liabilities
Borrowings
The carrying amounts and fair value of borrowings are as
follows:
31 December 2017

€ million

Carrying
amount

31 December 2016

Fair Carrying
value amount

Fair
value
4,994

Eurobonds EUR

3,903

4,194

Eurobonds GBP

1,504

1,884

1,557

1,952

Global Bonds USD

1,070

1,152

1,202

1,275

946

1,064

1,030

1,113

Hybrid Bonds (GBP and USD)

4,641

Other borrowings

173

185

202

214

Total borrowings

7,596

8,479

8,632

9,548

– of which: current
– of which: non-current

18

18

735

736

7,578

8,461

7,897

8,812

The fair value for Eurobonds, Global Bonds and Hybrid Bonds
is based on the listed price of the bonds. Other borrowings
include financial lease obligations, cash collateral received on
derivatives, bank overdraft and other loans.
KPN’s weighted average interest rate on the borrowings
outstanding before swaps at 31 December 2017 was 5.2%
(2016: 5.2%), including EUR hybrid bonds, classified as equity.
The weighted average interest rate after swaps was 4.5%
(2016: 4.6%). Excluding all hybrid bonds, the average interest
rate on the senior bond portfolio after swaps at 31 December
2017 was 3.9% (2016: 4.1%).

103

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements
Bonds
On 17 January 2017, KPN redeemed the 4.75% coupon Eurobond
2006-2017 with a remaining outstanding principal amount of
EUR 720m, in line with the regular redemption schedule.
Hybrid bonds
Nominal

Nominal €

Coupon

EUR Hybrid Bond

1,100

1,100

6.125%

Equity

Perpetual

14 Sep 2018

N/a

BB/Ba2

GBP Hybrid Bond

400

460

6.875%

Liability

14 Mar 2073

14 Mar 2020

Fixed 6.78%

BB/Ba2

USD Hybrid Bond

600

465

7.000%

Liability

28 Mar 2073

28 Mar 2023

Fixed 6.34%

BB/Ba2

KPN may, at its discretion and subject to certain conditions,
elect to defer payments of interest on each of the three hybrid
bonds. Arrears of interest must be paid if dividends are paid on
ordinary shares, in the event of early redemption, and for the
GBP/USD hybrid bonds at final maturity. KPN does not
recognize accruals for coupon payments on the EUR hybrid
bond (EUR 67m per year). If an accrual had been recognized,
the amount would have been EUR 20m at 31 December 2017.
The three hybrid bonds are for 50% treated as equity and 50%
as debt in KPN’s gross and net debt definitions.

Classification

Redemption First call date

Swapped Credit rating

Accounting policy: Borrowings
After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are
subsequently carried at amortized cost; any difference
between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the
redemption value is recognized in the P&L over the period
of the borrowings using the effective interest method. The
amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any
discounts or premiums on acquisition or issuance and
transaction costs. The effective interest rate amortization
is recognized in the P&L as finance costs.

Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities
Borrowings

Derivative financial
instruments

Net liability

9,700

-612

9,088

-287

291

4

Proceeds from borrowings

1,235

-

1,235

Repayments of borrowings and settlement of derivatives¹

-1,931

-12

-1,943

-

-54

-54

Other non-cash flow movements²

-85

287

202

Balance as of 31 December 2016

8,632

-100

8,532

-253

255

2

-749

-20

-769

-34

25

-9

7,596

160

7,756

€ million
Balance as of 1 January 2016
Exchange differences
Movements recorded as net cash flows arising from/used in financing activities:

Other financing cash flows

Exchange differences
Movements recorded as net cash flows arising from/used in financing activities:
Repayments of borrowings and settlement of derivatives¹
Other movements²
Balance as of 31 December 2017

1 In the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows this line item includes a payment of EUR 90m in 2017 and a receipt of EUR 32 million in 2016 regarding cash
collateral on derivatives (presented as non-current other receivables) and tender premiums of EUR 222m in 2016.
2 Other movements predominanty are fair value adjustments and in 2016 include the impact of the exercise of the GroupIT option (Derivative financial
instruments).

104

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

How we safeguard long-term value

[12.3] Hedging activities and derivatives
KPN uses derivatives solely for the purpose of hedging
underlying exposures.
€ million
Assets

31 December
2017

31 December
2016

168

298

Liabilities

-328

-198

Total derivatives

-160

100

of which: designated in a hedge
relationship

-291

-59

of which: other derivatives not
designated in a hedge relationship

131

159

The ineffective portion of the fair value hedges and cash
flow hedges recognized in the P&L during 2017 resulted in a
loss of EUR 1m (2016: EUR 1m loss).
Derivatives positions are reported on a gross basis. Part of
the derivatives portfolio is subject to master netting agreements
that allow netting under certain circumstances. If netting had
been applied, the total derivatives asset position would be
EUR 32m and the total derivatives liability position would be
EUR 192m at 31 December 2017 (2016: EUR 124m and EUR 24m
respectively).
Bonds denominated in foreign currency
Bonds denominated in foreign currencies are hedged with
cross-currency swaps. The currency exposure is hedged by
effectively fixing the countervalue in foreign currency to euro
and by hedging the interest rate exposure by swapping the

Accounting policy: Derivatives and hedging activities
Derivatives are recognized at fair value. Gains and losses
arising from changes in fair value are recognized as finance
cost/income during the period in which they arise to the
extent that the derivatives have no hedging designation
or they are ineffective.
Derivatives related to loans are designated as either cash
flow or fair value hedges. KPN applies hedge accounting
as this recognizes the offsetting effects on the P&L.
At the inception of transactions, KPN documents the
relationship between the derivative and hedged item,
the nature of the risk being hedged, the strategy for
undertaking transactions, whether the hedge relationship
is expected to be effective and how this is tested.

Appendices

fixed interest rates in foreign currency to fixed rates in euro.
The hedges are until maturity of the underlying senior bonds,
or until the first call date in case of the hybrid bonds.
For these hedges, KPN meets the criteria of, and also applies,
cash flow hedge accounting. The effectiveness of the hedges
are determined at inception and on a quarterly basis. KPN uses
the cumulative dollar offset method for its cash flow hedges
related to cross-currency swaps. Part of KPN’s derivatives
portfolio contains reset clauses or collateral postings at
pre-agreed dates (see Note 12.4 ‘Liquidity risk’).
Bonds denominated in EUR
In 2011, Eurobonds with maturities on 21 September 2020, 4
October 2021, and 30 September 2024, were swapped to a
floating rate based on three-month Euribor using
fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps. Subsequently in May 2015,
KPN swapped the floating rate exposure on these bonds to a
fixed rate for the remaining maturity of these bonds and
discontinued fair value hedge accounting for the
fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps. The cumulative gain of
EUR 224m will be amortized to earnings until maturity of the
bonds. The balance of the unamortized gain was EUR 88m at
31 December 2017 (2016: EUR 108m).
Since May 2015, KPN holds the interest rate swaps on these
bonds at FVPL for an amount of EUR 131m per 31 December
2017 and recorded a loss of EUR 28m in 2017, excluding
amortization of discontinued fair value hedges (2016: EUR 28m
loss).
The Eurobond maturing on 11 September 2028, has been
swapped to a floating rate based on six-months Euribor using
fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps. For this hedge, KPN meets
the criteria of, and also applies, hedge accounting.

Changes in the fair value of an effective derivative, which is
designated as a fair value hedge, along with the gain or
loss on the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged
risk, are recorded as finance cost/ income. Changes in the
fair value of an effective derivative, which is designated as
a cash flow hedge, are recorded in OCI for the effective part,
until the P&L is affected by the variability in cash flows of
the designated hedged item. The ineffective part of the
cash flow hedge is recognized as finance cost/income. If an
underlying transaction has ceased to be an effective
hedge or in case of early redemption of the hedged item,
hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively which
means that subsequent changes in fair value are
recognized in the P&L as finance cost/income. The
cumulative amount recorded in OCI is released in the P&L.

105

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements
[12.4] Financial risk management and policies
Financing policy
KPN strives for the right balance between a prudent financing
policy, investments in the business and shareholder
remuneration. KPN is committed to an investment grade credit
profile. It is the policy to utilize excess cash for operational and
financial flexibility, (small) in-country mergers and acquisitions
and/or shareholder remuneration.
The Net Debt/EBITDA ratio is one of the drivers for KPN’s
credit rating and is based on the nominal value of borrowings.
The difference between carrying value and nominal value of
borrowings includes: (1) carrying value adjustments resulting
from fair value hedges and (2) in case of foreign currency
bonds, the difference between the nominal amount at the
prevailing spot rate and the swapped nominal amount in EUR.

€ million
Borrowings
Bank overdraft

31 December
2017

31 December
2016

7,596

8,632

-4

-1

Perpetual hybrid bonds

1,100

1,100

50% equity credit for hybrid bonds

-1,013

-1,013

Cash collateral paid on derivatives
Difference between carrying value
and nominal value

-114

-24

-335

-617

7,230

8,077

852

1,178

Adjusted gross debt
Net cash and cash equivalents
Short-term investments

329

140

6,049

6,759

Normalized EBITDA

2,417

2,429

Net Debt/EBITDA

2.5x

2.8x

Net Debt

Financial risk management
KPN is exposed to a variety of financial risks. The overall risk
management program focuses on the unpredictability of
financial markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse
effects on KPN’s financial position and performance.
Derivatives are used to hedge certain risk exposures (see 12.3).
The financial risks are managed by KPN’s Treasury department
under policies approved by the Board of Management. These
policies are established to identify and analyze financial risks,
to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor
adherence to those limits. KPN’s key financial risks are the following:
	Credit and counterparty risk;
	Liquidity risk; and
	Market risk.

106

Credit and counterparty risk
Credit risk arises from the possibility of asset impairment
occurring when counterparties are unable to meet their
obligations in transactions involving financial instruments.
Capital preservation is KPN’s main priority when investing
excess cash. KPN’s counterparty policy sets limits for the
maximum exposure per counterparty, which are primarily
based on credit ratings, investment periods and collateral.
The minimum counterparty credit rating (Moody’s equivalent)
is A3 for cash balances and for entering into new derivative
transactions. Cash balances used for working capital purposes
can also reside at banks with lower credit ratings.
As at 31 December 2017, KPN’s cash balances and short-term
investments were held in bank accounts, bank deposits, money
market funds and tri-party repurchase agreements with
maturities up to three months. The majority of cash balances
were invested with counterparties with a credit rating
equivalent to A2 at Moody’s or stronger and the counterparties
of outstanding derivatives have a credit rating equivalent to
Baa1 or higher with Moody’s. A credit valuation loss of EUR 1m
(2016: 1m loss) was recorded related to interest rate swaps or
cross-currency swaps recorded as fair value and cash flow hedges.
Credit risk on trade receivables is controlled using restrictive
policies for customer acceptance. Credit management is
focused on mobile services. Before accepting certain new
customers in this segment, the creditworthiness of prospective
clients is checked. In addition, KPN keeps track of the payment
performance of customers. If customers fail to meet set criteria,
payment issues must be resolved before a new transaction will
be entered into.
KPN’s policy is to provide financial guarantees only to whollyowned subsidiaries. At 31 December 2017, KPN had parent
guarantees and bank guarantees outstanding to third parties
for various Dutch wholly-owned subsidiaries. The carrying
amount of financial assets including cash represents the
maximum credit exposure, which amounts to EUR 2,965m at
31 December 2017 (2016: EUR 3,956m). On 31 December 2017,
total outstanding bank guarantees amounted to EUR 8m
(2016: EUR 8m), which were issued in the ordinary course of
business.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that KPN will not be able to meet its
financial obligations associated with financial instruments
as they become due. KPN’s approach to managing liquidity is
to ensure sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due,
under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring
unacceptable losses or risking damage.

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

How we safeguard long-term value

Appendices

Maturity analysis of the financial liabilities based on the remaining contractual maturities on 31 December 2017.
Borrowings

€ million
2018

Bonds and
loans1

Interest on
bonds and
loans2

Derivatives

Financial
lease
obligations

Other debt
and Cash
collateral

Derivatives
inflow
(including
interest)

Trade and
other
Derivatives
outflow payables and
accrued
(including
expenses
interest)

Total
1,483

-

293

11

63

-269

217

1,168

2019-2022

2,264

988

29

12

-1,499

1,353

–

3,147

2023 and further

4,925

1,156

27

-

-3,722

3,532

–

5,918

Contractual cash flows

7,189

2,437

67

75

-5,490

5,102

1,168

10,548

1 Includes the GBP and USD Hybrid Bonds with final maturities in 2073 (redemption value of EUR 951m). The EUR perpetual Hybrid Bond is not included as it
has no stated maturity date.
2 Interest payments on the GBP and USD Hybrid Bonds (EUR 66m per year until the first call dates in 2020 and 2023 respectively) are not included. KPN may,
at its discretion and subject to certain conditions, elect to defer payments of interest on these hybrid bonds. Any arrears of interest must be paid at the latest
at redemption in 2073, the amount of which cannot be reliably measured because of the duration of the hybrid bonds.

Part of the derivatives contain reset clauses or collateral
postings at pre-agreed dates, in order to mitigate counterparty
exposure during the life of the swap. These reset clauses will
result in early euro settlement obligations in cash with the
swap counterparty, which could lead to additional cash inflows
or outflows before maturity. During 2017, KPN paid net
collateral of EUR 111m (2016: paid EUR 46m), according to
pre-agreed settlement schedules. In order to reduce liquidity
risks, the reset clauses or collateral postings are spread over
different points in time.

prohibiting KPN from entering into any amalgamation,
demerger, merger, corporate restructuring or reorganization,
unless prior written consent has been given by a majority of the
lenders or bondholders or the resulting company assumes all
of the rights and obligations with respect to the loans or bonds.

Available financing sources
In addition to the available cash and cash equivalents and
short-term investments and cash flows from operations, KPN
has the following committed financing resources available:

Foreign currency exchange rate risk
Foreign currency risks mainly result from settlement of
international telecommunications traffic and purchase of assets
and primarily consists of GBP and USD exposure. Foreign
currency exchange rate risks related to bonds that are not
denominated in euro are hedged into euro in line with KPN’s
hedging policies.

Revolving credit facility
In June 2017, KPN exercised a one-year extension option for its
EUR 1.25 billion revolving credit facility, which brings the
maturity of the revolving credit facility to 1 July 2022. The
facility contains another one-year extension option, which
could extend the maturity to July 2023. The facility is used for
general corporate purposes and does not contain any financial
covenants. The facility was undrawn per 31 December 2017.
Capital resources covenants
KPN’s existing capital resources contain the following
covenants as at 31 December 2017, which could trigger
additional financial obligations or early redemption of the
outstanding indebtedness. All senior bonds issued after
1 January 2006 (EUR 5.4bn at 31 December 2017) contain a
change of control clause. KPN may be required to early redeem,
in case certain changes of control occur and within this change
of control period (max. 90 days) a rating downgrade to
sub-investment grade occurs. The hybrid bonds also contain a
change of control clause by means of which KPN has the
possibility to repurchase the hybrid bonds at par. A 5% interest
step-up applies if a rating downgrade occurs during the
change of control period in respect of that change of control.
In addition, many of KPN’s capital resources contain a covenant

Market risk
KPN is exposed to various kinds of market risks in the ordinary
course of business. These risks include foreign currency
exchange rate risk and interest rate risk.

As a result of currency fluctuations, the value of subsidiaries
could fluctuate and affect the financial position and equity
positions from year to year. These translation exposures are
not hedged.
Group companies and business operations are obliged to
hedge their firm commitments and highly predictable
anticipated transactions in non-functional currencies by
forward contracts. Accordingly, KPN’s Treasury department
matches and manages the intercompany and external
exposures using forward exchange contracts. No hedge
accounting is applied for these hedge instruments.
At 31 December 2017, more than 99% of cash and cash
equivalents was denominated in the functional currency of the
related entities. More than 98% of the net amount of trade
receivables and more than 94% of the amount of trade
payables was outstanding in the functional currency of the
related entities.

107

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements
Interest rate risk and interest rate profile
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash
flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate as a result of
changes in market interest rates. Borrowings, derivatives, cash
and cash equivalents are subject to interest rate risk.
With regard to interest rate risk exposure, KPN periodically
evaluates the desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate
liabilities, balancing the benefit of lower interest costs vs. the
variability of cash flows. Any interest exposure longer than one
year is considered to be fixed. KPN may use derivative financial
instruments to adjust the desired interest rate exposure. As of
31 December 2017, 92% of KPN’s interest-bearing gross debt
(excluding bank overdraft) was at fixed interest rates (2016:
100%).
In November 2017, KPN swapped the 1.125% coupon on the
2016 - 2028 Eurobond to six-months Euribor to adjust the mix
of fixed and floating rate interest rate liabilities.
With a view to the existing and forecasted debt structure,
KPN could enter into additional future derivatives to further
adjust the mix of fixed and floating interest rate liabilities.

At 31 December 2017, a sensitivity analysis with regard to
interest rate risk on interest-bearing liabilities (excl. cash flow
hedges) showed that, ceteris paribus, each adverse change of
100 bps in six-months Euribor would hypothetically not result
in higher interest costs per annum because of the outstanding
cash & cash equivalents which also carry a floating interest.
Cash flow hedges
At 31 December 2017, KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis with
regard to interest rate and currency risk on the cash flow
hedges. KPN applies cash flow hedge accounting on all bonds
not denominated in Euro. With all other variables held constant,
KPN calculated the hypothetical impact of changes in interest
rates based on various scenarios. This would hypothetically
result in a higher or lower value on the balance of the hedge
reserve, which is included in equity attributable to equity
holders. In a similar way, KPN calculated the hypothetical
impact of changes in the EUR/USD rate and the EUR/GBP rate,
holding all other variables constant. The results of the analyses
are shown in the table below, indicating the hypothetical
impact on the fair value of the cross currency swaps (excluding
the partially offsetting impact on the hedged items):
GBP

€ million
(before tax)
Change in interest rate
Change in FX rate

Change

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

+1%-point

-8

-15

-11

-3

-19

-18

-1%-point

9

17

11

2

20

19

+10%-point

70

72

60

81

130

153

-10%-point

-86

-85

-73

-99

-159

-184

Derivatives held at fair value
At 31 December 2017, KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis with
regard to the fair value of interest rate swaps (excluding the
partially offsetting impact on the hedged items) :

Changes in EUR interest rates

Change

2017

2016

+1%-point

-61

-5

-1%-point

68

5

For a sensitivity analysis on interest rate risk with regard to
pensions, read more in Note 16.

108

Total

2017

Prospective effectiveness testing indicates that all cash flow
hedges are expected to be highly effective. As a consequence,
the expected impact on the P&L is immaterial.

€ million

USD

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

Appendices

Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
Financial assets
The following financial assets are subject to offsetting,
enforceable master netting arrangements and similar
agreements:
Not Offset: Financial
instruments/Cash
collateral

Net amount

856

-4

852

168

-48

120

-59

64

–

64

1,147

-59

1,088

-52

1,036

Cash and cash equivalents

1,179

–

1,179

-1

1,178

Derivatives

298

–

298

-69

229

Trade and other receivables

135

-38

97

–

97

1,612

-38

1,574

-70

1,504

Financial assets
set off

Net amount in
balance sheet

Not offset: Cash
collateral

Net amount
214

Gross amount

Financial liabilities
set off

Net amount in
balance sheet

Cash and cash equivalents

856

–

Derivatives

168

–

Trade and other receivables

123

€ million
31 December 2017

Total
31 December 2016

Total

Financial liabilities
The following financial liabilities are subject to offsetting,
enforceable master netting arrangements and similar
agreements:

€ million
31 December 2017

Gross amount

Derivatives

328

–

328

-114

Trade and other payables

151

-59

92

–

92

479

-59

420

–114

306

Total
31 December 2016
Derivatives

198

–

198

-24

174

Trade and other payables

172

-38

134

–

134

Total

370

-38

332

-24

308

For the financial assets and liabilities summarized above, each
agreement between KPN and the counterparty allows for net
settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when
both parties elect to settle on a net basis.
Accounting policy:
Offsetting financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and reported on a
net basis on the balance sheet only when there is a legally
enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts and
there is an intention either to settle on a net basis or to
realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

109

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements
[13] Trade and other receivables

€ million

31 December
2017

31 December
2016

31 December
2017

31 December
2016

Non-current

Non-current

Current

Current

Trade receivables – gross

423

437

Other receivables

117

27

Provision for doubtful trade receivables

-44

-64

Accrued income and prepayments

24

34

Trade receivables – net

Total

141

61

379

373

Other receivables

25

31

Accrued income

259

263

Prepayments
Total

99

99

762

766

€ million

The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables
approximate their fair value. Trade and other receivables are
non-interest bearing.
The aging of the gross trade receivables is as follows:
31 December 2017
€ million

Gross

31 December 2016

Provision

Gross

Provision

Amounts undue

226

3

241

1

Past due 0–90 days

107

6

91

9

Past due 91–360 days

28

12

47

24

More than one year

62

23

58

30

423

44

437

64

Total

Accounting policy: Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables classify as loans and receivables,
a category of financial assets with fixed or determinable
payments that are not quoted in an active market and
created by KPN by providing money, goods or services
directly to a debtor, other than:
those KPN intends to sell immediately or in the short-term,
which are classified as held for trading; and
those for which KPN may not recover substantially all of its
initial investment, other than because of credit
deterioration, which are classified as available-for-sale.

110

Loans and receivables are initially recognized at fair value,
and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the
effective interest rate method, less provisions for impairment.
The amortized cost value may equal the initial cost value if
there is no maturity. The amortized cost is calculated by taking
into account any discounts or premiums on acquisition and
transactions costs. The effective interest rate amortization is
recognized under finance income or finance costs.
A provision for impairment is established when there is
objective evidence that KPN will not be able to collect all
amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

How we safeguard long-term value

Appendices

[14] Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid instruments,
mainly balances on bank accounts, bank deposits, AAA-rated
money market funds and tri-party repurchase agreements,
all with initial maturities of three months or less.
The main items causing the decrease in cash and cash
equivalents were the bond redemption in the first quarter of
2017 partially offset by retained cash flow during the year.
31 December
2017

31 December
2016

Cash

321

490

Short-term bank deposits, repurchase
agreements and money market funds

535

689

Total cash and cash equivalents

856

1,179

€ million

[15] Equity
Limitations in distribution shareholders’ equity
Total distributable reserves at 31 December 2017 amounted to
EUR 3,021m (2016: EUR 3,267m). For further details on
non-distributable reserves, see Note C of Corporate Financial
Statements.
Share capital
Authorized capital stock totals EUR 720m divided into nine
billion ordinary shares of EUR 4ct each and nine billion
preference shares B of EUR 4ct each. At 31 December 2017 a
total of 4,202,844,404 ordinary shares were outstanding and
fully paid-in. In 2017, 67,410,260 shares were repurchased

Accounting policy: Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand,
deposits held at call with banks, and other short-term
highly liquid investments with original maturities of three
months or less. Bank overdrafts are included within
borrowings in current liabilities.

(total cost of EUR 209m). These shares were subsequently
cancelled. Dutch law prohibits KPN from casting a vote on
shares KPN holds (treasury shares). The ordinary shares and
preference shares B carry the right to cast one vote each. The
ordinary shares are registered or payable to the bearer.
Shareholders may request the company to convert their
registered shares to bearer shares but not vice versa.
Share premium
In 2017, the share premium reserve decreased with EUR 206m
due to the cancellation of repurchased shares. The additional
paid-in capital is exempt from Dutch tax up to an amount of
EUR 9,450m at 31 December 2017 (2016: EUR 9,431m).

€ million, unless indicated otherwise

Treasury
shares
reserve

Balance at 1 January 2016

11,599,450

-132

-268

Movements recorded in OCI (net)
Sold treasury shares
Other
Balance at 31 December 2016
Movements recorded in OCI (net)
Sold treasury shares
Reclassification
Balance at 31 December 2017

Currency
translation
reserve

Total Other
reserves

259

16

-125
-326

Fair value
reserve AFS
Hedge
reserve financial assets

Number of
treasury
shares
–

–

-85

-261

20

-1,265,159

14

–

–

–

14

–

3

–

-17

–

-14

10,334,291

-115

-353

-19

36

-451

–

–

14

16

–

30

-1,161,443

12

–

–

–

12

–

–

–

16

–

16

9,172,848

-103

-339

13

36

-393

111

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements
Hedge reserve
€ million

31 December 31 December
2017
2016

Effective portion cash flow hedges¹

-261

Amortizable part²

-192

-193

Hedge reserve

-453

-471

Tax effect
Hedge reserve, net of tax

-278

114

118

-339

-353

1 The effective portion of cash flow hedges will be recognized in the P&L in line
with the maturities of the related derivatives (see Note 12.3).
2 The amortizable part of the hedge reserve is amortized over the remaining
life of the related bonds (between 2016 and 2030). The impact on the P&L
will be EUR 17m in 2018.

Treasury shares reserve
KPN purchased shares in its own capital for delivery upon
exercise of share options by management and personnel under
the share option and performance share plans (Note 5). Votes
on purchased shares may not be cast and do not count
determining the number of votes required at a General
Meeting of Shareholders. In 2017 and 2016, no shares were
purchased for the share option and performance share plans.
In 2017 and 2016, shares were sold in connection with vesting
grants of the KPN Restricted Share Plan (see Note 5).
Treasury shares are accounted for at cost, representing the market
price on the acquisition date. The proceeds at delivery of the
treasury shares are recognized directly in the other reserves.
Equity attributable to holders of perpetual capital
securities
The EUR 1.1bn hybrid bond with a 6.125% coupon is
subordinated to KPN Group’s senior creditors but ranks above
the ordinary and preference shareholders in the event of the
company’s winding up. This hybrid bond has a perpetual
maturity and can, at KPN’s discretion, first be redeemed in
September 2018. The hybrid bond is classified as equity
(perpetual capital securities). For interest payments and credit
ratings, see Note 12.2.
Foundation Preference Shares B KPN
KPN has granted a call option, which is not limited in time, to
the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN (the Foundation) to
acquire preference shares B. For further information about the
Foundation, see the chapter Corporate governance.
KPN is of the opinion that the call option does not represent a
significant fair value due to the fact that the preference shares
B, issued after exercise of the call option, bear interest linked to
Euribor.

112

Dividend per share
At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on
18 April 2018, a final dividend of EUR 7.3ct per share will be
proposed in respect of 2017. In August 2017, KPN paid an
interim dividend in respect of 2017 of EUR 3.7ct per share, in
total EUR 156m, bringing the total regular dividend in respect
of 2017 to EUR 11ct per share. These financial statements do
not reflect the proposal for the remaining dividend payable.
In May 2017, the dividend received from KPN’s stake in TEFD
was distributed to KPN shareholders as a special interim cash
dividend of EUR 1.7ct per ordinary share (EUR 72m). Total
dividend in respect of 2017, including the additional interim cash
dividend, will then amount to EUR 12.7ct per ordinary share.
In April 2017, KPN paid a final dividend of EUR 6.7ct per share in
respect of 2016, in total EUR 285m. The total dividend in
respect of 2016 was EUR 12.5ct per ordinary share including the
additional interim cash dividend of EUR 2.5ct per share in
relation to the dividend received from KPN’s stake in TEFD.

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

[16] Retirement benefits
Retirement benefits are provided through a number of defined
contribution plans and funded and unfunded defined benefit
plans. The most significant plans are described below.
KPN main pension plan
KPN’s main pension plan covers employees in the Netherlands
who are subject to KPN’s collective labor agreement and
employees with an individual labor agreement and is externally
funded through Stichting Pensioenfonds KPN. This plan is a
collective defined contribution pension plan and is accounted
for as a defined contribution plan because KPN has no other
obligation than to pay the annual contribution which is a fixed
percentage of the pensionable base.
Getronics UK and US
The Getronics US and UK operations were divested in 2008
and 2012 respectively. The closed and frozen pension plans of
the former US and UK operations remained with KPN and are
accounted for as a defined benefit plan. The assets of the plans
are held separately from KPN in independently administered
funds except for two supplemental executive retirement plans
in the US. The UK plan operates under the regulations of the
UK Pensions Regulator and the main US plan under the
provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
(ERISA). The deficit in the plans’ funding must be recovered by
the investment returns in the plans’ assets and contributions
by KPN. The pension plans in the UK and US expose KPN to a
number of risks which can have an impact on the future
contributions by KPN and the liability recorded in its balance
sheet. The most significant risks are summarized below:

Appendices

	Asset volatility: the pension plans’ assets are predominantly
invested in equity securities and other return seeking assets
and therefore the plans’ funding levels are exposed to equity
market risks;
	Interest rate risk: a decrease in interest rates will increase the
plans’ liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an
increase in the value of the plans’ bond holdings;
	Inflation risk: in the UK the indexation of the accrued benefits
is unconditional and is based on a combination of consumer
and retail price indices and therefore the UK plan is exposed
to inflation risk; and
	Life expectancy: the plans provide benefits for the life of the
members, so increases in life expectancy will result in an
increase in the plans’ liabilities.
Other
KPN has a number of other funded (insured) plans in the
Netherlands and an unfunded transitional early retirement plan
(provision of EUR 47m as at 31 December 2017, last payment
expected in 2021), which are all closed to new entrants.
Furthermore, with regard to the insured plans, based on Dutch law,
KPN could be required to make contributions if participants of
these plans require a value transfer to another pension fund or
insurer. However, the risk related to these value transfers is limited
and therefore no provision has been recognized for these plans.
Provisions for retirement benefit obligations
The provisions for retirement benefit obligations consist of the
net defined benefit liability regarding pension plans and early
retirement plans which are accounted for as defined benefit
plans as described above. See the table on the next page for a
specification of the balance sheet position.

113

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements
Fair value of
assets

Defined benefit obligation²
€ million

2017

Balance as of 1 January

2016

2017

Net defined
benefit liability (asset)

2016

2017

2016

769

2,039

-507

-1,780

262

259

1

-1,348

3

1,339

4

-9

21

57

-14

-50

7

7

19

145

–

–

19

145

–

–

-29

-87

-29

-87

-46

-49

32

33

-14

-16

-27

96

3

-54

-24

42
-37

Included in profit or loss:
Operating expense¹
Interest expense (income)
Included in OCI:
Remeasurements loss (gain):
Actuarial loss (gain)³
Return on plan assets excluding interest income
Effect of movements in exchange rates
Total
Other:
Employer’s contribution⁴

–

–

-31

-37

-31

Benefits paid

-46

-75

46

75

–

–

Balance as of 31 December

718

769

-500

-507

218

262

1 Operating expense includes:
- Amendment gains in 2016 at Voorzieningsfonds Getronics (SVG), liquidated in 2017, due to reduction of the charges for administration expenses (EUR 4m)
and transfer of part of SVG’s assets and accrued benefit obligations to the KPN pension fund on 1 April 2016 (EUR 7m);
- Amendment gain in 2017 of EUR 1m due to an increase in the retirement age of the transitional early retirement plan;
- Settlement gain in 2016 at SVG of EUR 4m (EUR 1,317m defined benefit obligations minus EUR 1,313m plan assets); and
- Settlement loss in 2016 of EUR 1m due to lump sum payments to certain participants of the US plan (EUR 22m defined benefit obligations minus EUR 23m
plan assets).
2 The measurement date for all defined benefit plans is 31 December.
3 The actuarial loss (gain) in 2017 and 2016 consists of demographic assumptions (EUR -8m and EUR -5m), financial assumptions (EUR +20m and EUR +149m)
and experience adjustments (EUR +7m and EUR +1m).
4 Includes EUR 3m lumpsum payments in 2017 for (unfunded) supplemental executive retirement plans in the US which are expected to be settled in 2018.

Defined benefit obligations
Actuarial assumptions
The key actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of the
defined benefit obligations are as follows:
31 December 2017
Getronics UK

Getronics US

31 December 2016
Other

Getronics UK

Getronics US

Other

Discount rate (%)

2.5

3.6

1.7

2.7

4.1

1.8

Expected salary increases (%)

N/a

N/a

2.0

N/a

N/a

2.0

2.1-3.1

N.a.

0.5

2.3–3.3

N/a

0.5

Male

23.1

20.7

21.7

23.0

21.7

21.4

Female

24.9

22.7

23.9

25.0

24.2

23.6

Expected benefit increases/indexation (%)
Life expectancy for pensioners at the age of 65:

114

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

How we safeguard long-term value

The discount rate is based on yield curves of AA corporate
bonds with maturities equal to the duration of the benefit
obligations and in the applicable currency. As at 31 December 2017,
the (weighted) average duration of the defined benefit
obligation was 14 years. Assumptions regarding life expectancy
are based on published statistics and mortality tables that
include allowances for future improvement in mortality. The
mortality table used in the Netherlands is the projected table
AG 2016 which includes projected improvement rates varying
by year of birth, corrected for fund specific circumstances. The
mortality table used in the UK is the 93% of SAPS S2PXA tables

CMI 2016 projection with a 1.5% long-term improvement and in
the US the RP-2006 with Scale MP-2017. The life expectancy at
the age of 65 is expected to increase in the next 20 years by
approximately two years in the UK and the US.
Sensitivity analysis
The table below shows the approximate impact on the
defined benefit obligation of a change in the key actuarial
assumptions of 0.5% and in the case of life expectancy of a
change of one year.

31 December 2017
€ million

Appendices

31 December 2016

Increase

Decrease

Increase

Decrease

-48

54

-54

60

Expected salary increases

–

–

–

–

Expected benefit increases

28

-22

27

-25

Life expectancy

26

-26

27

-27

Discount rate

Plan assets
The assets of all defined benefit pension plans as at 31
December 2017 and 2016 comprise of:
31 December
€ million

2017

2016

Quoted in active markets:
Equity securities

36%

30%

Fixed income securities¹

27%

25%

Real estate²

1%

1%

Commodities³

1%

1%

Derivatives⁴

–

–

7%

11%

Fixed income securities¹

7%

10%

Real estate²

2%

2%

19%

20%

Other⁵
Other:

Other⁵

1 Including inflation-linked bonds (per Standard & Poor’s rating).
2 As at 31 December 2017, none of the investments in real estate were located
in Europe.
3 Includes investment funds which invest in financial instruments related to
commodities such as energy, agricultural products and precious metals.
4 Includes interest rate swaps, interest rate swaptions and put options on
equity securities.
5 Mainly insurance contracts.

115

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements
Strategic investment policies
The strategic investment portfolios of the defined benefit plans
(before hedging) at year-end 2017 were as follows:

Accounting policy:
Provisions for retirement benefit obligations

As the pension funds mainly invest in the global investment
funds, a minor part of these investments could be related to
KPN equities. The pension funds do not have direct investments
in KPN equities.

Pension obligations
The liability recognized in respect of all pension and early
retirement plans that qualify as defined benefit obligation
is the present value of the defined benefit obligation less
the fair value of plan assets. KPN uses actuarial
calculations (projected unit credit method) to measure
the obligations and the costs. For the calculation, actuarial
assumptions are made about demographic variables
(such as employee turnover and mortality) and financial
variables (such as future indexation and the discount
rate). The discount rate is determined by reference to
market rates. These are interest rates of high-quality
corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency
in which the benefit will be paid and that have terms to
maturity approximating the terms of the related liability.
A net defined benefit asset may arise where a defined
benefit plan has been overfunded. KPN recognizes a net
defined benefit asset in such a case only when future
economic benefits are available to KPN in the form of a
reduction in future contributions or a cash refund.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognized immediately in OCI.

Expected contributions and benefits
In 2017, the total employer’s contributions and benefit payments
for all defined benefit and defined contribution plans amounted
to EUR 117m (excluding discontinued operations), consisting of
EUR 86m employer’s premiums for defined contribution plans,
EUR 15m contributions for funded defined benefit plans and
EUR 16m payments for unfunded plans.
The amount of employer’s contributions in 2018 for the
remaining defined benefit pension plans is estimated to be
EUR 24m for both funded and unfunded plans. The total
amount of employer’s premiums to be paid in 2018 for the
defined contribution plans is estimated to be EUR 89m.

Past service costs, curtailments and settlements are
recognized immediately in the P&L.
The amount of pension costs included in operating
expenses with respect to defined benefit plans consist
of service cost, past service costs, curtailments and
settlements and administration costs. Net interest on
the net defined benefit liability is presented as part of
finance costs.
For pension plans that qualify as a defined contribution
plan, KPN recognizes contributions as an expense
when an employee has rendered service in exchange for
those contributions.

Getronics UK Getronics US Other plans
Equity securities

35%

45%

1%

Fixed income securities
(including inflation-linked bonds)

35%

25%

0%

Other

30%

30%

99%

Total

100%

100%

100%

In both the UK and the US, a roadmap is in place to move to
more fixed income exposure as the funded status improves.
The Getronics UK pension fund does not hedge interest rate
risks, currency risks and equity risks. The Getronics US pension
fund does not hedge currency and equity risks but partially
hedges interest rate risk.

[17] Provisions for other liabilities and
charges
€ million

31 December
2017

31 December
2016

Restructuring provision

60

45

Asset retirement obligations

41

34

Other provisions

68

59

Total provisions for other liabilities and
charges

169

138

of which: non-current

103

89

66

49

of which: current

116

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

How we safeguard long-term value

Appendices

Statement of changes in provisions
€ million

Personnel

Contractual

Total
restructuring

Asset retirement
obligation

Other provisions

Total provisions

Balance at 1 January 2016

38

41

79

36

41

156

of which: current portion

38

9

47

3

9

59

Additions

55

3

58

–

33

91

–

-13

-13

-2

–

-15

-70

-9

-79

-3

-15

-97

Releases
Usage

–

–

–

3

–

3

Balance at 31 December 2016

23

22

45

34

59

138

of which: current portion

23

6

29

6

14

49

Additions

90

–

90

9

23

122

Releases

–

-4

-4

–

–

-4

-65

-6

-71

-1

-21

-93

Other movements

Usage

–

–

–

-1

7

6

Balance at 31 December 2017

48

12

60

41

68

169

< 1 year

46

2

48

1

17

66

1 - 5 year

2

6

8

9

9

26

> 5 year

–

4

4

31

42

77

Other movements

Restructuring provisions
Termination benefits are payable when employment is
terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever
an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for
these benefits. Termination benefits are recognized when
KPN is demonstrably committed either to terminating the
employment according to a detailed formal plan without
possibility of withdrawal or to providing termination benefits as
a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after 31 December are
discounted to present value.

have been idle for a continuous period of 10 years. Due to the
fact that the date, when the cables will become idle, is uncertain
and KPN is not able to predict whether and when a landlord will
place a request for removal, KPN is not able to make a reliable
estimate of the impact and therefore no provision was
recognized at 31 December 2017 nor at 31 December 2016.
Other provisions
Other provisions relate to various risks and commitments,
onerous contracts, claims and litigations (see Note 20).

Other long-term employee obligations employee benefits
include jubilee or other long-service employee benefits,
long-term disability benefits and, if they are not fully payable
within 12 months after the end of the period, bonuses and
deferred compensation. The expected costs of these benefits
are accrued over the period of employment using an
accounting method similar to that for defined benefit pension
plans, except that actuarial gains and losses and past-service
costs are recognized immediately in the P&L.

Accounting policy: Provisions for other liabilities
and charges
Provisions for asset retirement obligations, restructuring
costs and legal claims are recognized when KPN has a
present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past
events, and it is more likely than not that an outflow of
resources will be required to settle the obligation and the
amount can be reliably estimated.

Asset retirement obligations
The provision for asset retirement obligations is based on.
assumptions of the estimated costs of removal, discount rate
and estimated period of removal, which vary per type of asset.
As defined in the Telecommunications Act, the obligation for
landlords to tolerate cables terminates as soon as those cables

Provisions are measured at the present value of
management’s best estimate of the expenditure required
to settle the present obligation at balance sheet date. The
discount rate used to determine the present value reflects
current market assessments of the time value of money
and the risks specific to the liability.

117

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements
[18] Deferred income, trade and other
payables
31 December 2017
€ million

Current

31 December 2016

Non-current

Current

Non-current

Trade payables

631

–

640

–

Deferred income

265

39

230

40

Accrued interest

161

–

197

–

Accrued expenses

495

–

502

–

Social security and other taxes payable

211

–

241

–

Other payables

19

23

29

22

1,782

62

1,839

62

Total

Deferred income mainly concerns amounts billed in advance
for fixed fees and subscriptions.
Accounting policy:
Deferred income, trade and other payables
Deferred income, trade and other payables classify as
‘borrowings’ within KPN’s financial liabilities. For the
accounting policy, see Note 12.

118

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

How we safeguard long-term value

Appendices

Consolidated Financial Statements

Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements
[19] Business combinations and other
changes in consolidation

The purchase price allocation is provisional.
In aggregate, the acquisitions contributed EUR 36m to revenue,
EUR 3m to EBITDA and EUR -2m to net profit of KPN in 2017. If
all acquisitions had taken place at the beginning of the year,
revenues of KPN Group would have been EUR 66m higher,
EBITDA EUR 4m higher and net profit EUR 6m lower.

Changes in consolidation in 2017
KPN acquired a 100% interest in the following companies
in 2017:
Name

Description

Segment

Acquisition date

DearBytes B.V.

Provider of cyber
security services

Business

31 January

Divider B.V.

IT provider of specialized
VPN and network
solutions

Business

23 February

Vrieservice B.V.

Provider of telecommunication services
mainly for small and
medium-sized
enterprises

Business

23 March

Solcon
Internetdiensten
N.V.

Internet services
provider mainly to
consumers

Consumer

29 June

Cam IT
Solutions B.V.

Provider of IT services
to the healthcare and
public sector

Business

15 August

Business

11 December

Qsight IT Holding Providers of cyber
B.V. and InSpark security services
Holding B.V.

Purchase price allocation of these acquistions:
Recognized amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed
(in € million)
lntangible assets¹
Property, plant and equipment

77
11

Other non-current assets
Trade and other receivables
Net cash and cash equivalents acquired

5
26
3

Deferred income tax liabilities
Non-current borrowings & liabilities
Trade and other payables and deferred income

-18
-15
-42

Total identifiable net assets

47

Cash consideration
Liability for contingent consideration

148
5

Total consideration

153

Goodwill

106

Changes in consolidation in 2016
On 30 June 2016, KPN acquired a 100% interest in Dekatel
Nederland B.V., provider of telecommunication services mainly
for small and medium sized enterprises. On 1 January 2016,
KPN obtained control of Glasvezelnet Amsterdam B.V.

Accounting policy: Business combinations
KPN uses the acquisition method to account for business
combinations. The consideration paid is measured at the
fair value of the assets transferred, equity instruments
issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date
of exchange. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
and contingent liabilities assumed are measured at
their fair values at the acquisition date. When a business
combination is achieved in stages, any previously
held equity interest is remeasured at its acquisition date
fair value and any resulting gain or loss is recognized in
the P&L.
Contingent considerations are recognized at fair value at
acquisition date and subsequent changes to the fair value
are recognized in the P&L. Contingent considerations
classified as equity are not remeasured and subsequent
settlement is counted for within equity.
For each business combination, KPN elects to recognize
any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair
value or at the proportionate share in the acquiree’s net
assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
The excess of the consideration paid, non-controlling
interests recognized and the acquisition date fair value of
any previous equity interests in the acquiree over the fair
value of KPN’s share of the net assets acquired is recorded
as goodwill. If negative goodwill occurs in case of a bargain
purchase, the difference is recognized directly in the P&L.

1 Including customer bases, valued at EUR 58m.

119

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements
[20] Commitments, contingencies and legal
proceedings
Commitments

€ million
Due by period

More than 5 years

Total 31 December
2017

Total 31 December
2016

204

10

1,059

976

363

278

775

821

3

-

152

155

155

982

567

440

1,989

1,952

Less than 1 year

1–5 years

Capital and purchase commitments

845

Rental and operational lease contracts

134

Guarantees and other
Total commitments

The capital and purchase commitments mainly relate to
minimum contractual obligations with regard to network
operations, mobile handsets and telco services.
The rental and operational lease contracts mainly relate to
buildings, site rentals, mobile towers and vehicles. The majority
of agreements include options for renewal. These options have
not been included in the off balance sheet obligations unless
they have been exercised. Also, most rental fees are subject to
periodic indexation. In addition, the majority of contracts can
be cancelled by KPN only, with a notice period of 12 months.
The minimum non-cancellable sublease amounts expected
to be received as at 31 December 2017 amount to EUR 7m
(31 December 2016: EUR 8m). These amounts mainly relate to
subleases of buildings and site sharing arrangements.
The total net costs of rental and operating leases amounted to
EUR 192m in 2017 (2016: EUR 191m) and is (mainly) included in
other operating expenses.
Guarantees consist of financial obligations of Group companies
under certain contracts guaranteed by KPN. A total amount of
EUR 153m relates to parent guarantees (2016: EUR 155m).

Accounting policy: Leases
Leases where KPN as lessor retains a significant portion of
the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are
classified as operating leases. The assets remain on the
balance sheet and are depreciated over the assets’ useful
life. Lease payments received from lessees are recognized
as revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease period.
Payments by KPN as lessee under operating leases are
charged to the P&L on a straight-line basis over the
period of the lease (net of any incentives received from
the lessor). If a sale-and-leaseback transaction results in
an operating lease, the profit or loss is calculated using
the fair value of the assets sold and recognized in the
P&L immediately.
Leases where KPN as lessee has assumed substantially
all risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance
leases. KPN then recognizes the leased assets on the
balance sheet at the lower of the fair value and the present
value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding
rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in
other long-term payables in the balance sheet. Property,
plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are
depreciated over the shorter of the assets’ useful life and
the lease term. If a sale-and-leaseback transaction results
in a finance lease, any excess of sale proceeds over the
carrying amount is deferred and recognized in the P&L
over the lease term.
In case KPN acts as lessor in a finance lease, the
transaction is accounted for as a normal sale and the
present value of the lease payments is recognized as a
receivable. The difference between the gross receivable
and the present value of the receivable is deferred and
recognized as interest over the lease term.

120

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

Appendices

Contingent liabilities

[21] Related-party transactions

Legal and tax proceedings
KPN is involved in a number of legal and tax proceedings that
have arisen in the ordinary course of its business, including
commercial, regulatory or other proceedings. Periodically KPN
carefully assesses the likelihood that legal and tax proceedings
may lead to a cash outflow, and recognizes provisions in such
cases/matters if and when required. However, the outcome of
legal proceedings can be difficult to predict with certainty, and
KPN can offer no assurances in this regard.

KPN considers none of the related-party transactions to be
material on an individual basis, except for the transactions with
shareholders. Transactions between Group companies are not
included in the description as these are eliminated in the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

In some cases, the impact of a legal proceeding may be more
strategic than financial and such impact cannot properly be
quantified. Below is a description of legal proceedings or
contingent liabilities that could have a material impact for KPN.
VAT benefit
Revenues at Consumer include a VAT benefit due to a change
in the VAT calculation methodology, the consequence of the
introduction of new mobile consumer propositions in August
2016. This has resulted in a lower remittance of VAT from
August 2016 onwards of approximately EUR 3m per month.
Although the view of KPN is not shared by the Dutch Tax
Administration, based on the current legislation, KPN
concluded that a positive outcome of this dispute is probable
and therefore not recorded a provision.
Idle cables
See Note 17 for a contingent liability related to idle cables and
the accounting policy of provisions.
Indemnification
In KPN’s Articles of Association and in a further decision by the
Board of Management, which was approved by the Supervisory
Board, KPN has indemnified the members and former
members of KPN’s Board of Management and Supervisory
Board, as well as a number of KPN’s officers and directors and
former officers and directors, against liabilities, claims,
judgments, fines and penalties incurred by such officer or
director as a result of any threatened, pending or completed
action, investigation or proceeding (whether civil, criminal or
administrative) brought by a third party in relation to acts or
omissions in or related to their capacity as officer or director.
The indemnification does not apply to claims and expenses
reimbursed by insurers, nor to an officer or a director adjudged
to be liable for willful misconduct (‘opzet’) or intentional
recklessness (‘bewuste roekeloosheid’).

Transactions with shareholders
América Móvil, S.A.B. de C.V. (‘AMX’) published on 13 February
2018, in its fourth quarter 2017 report, that it owned 21.1% of
KPN’s ordinary share capital at 31 December 2017. The total
value of sales transactions by the continuing operations of KPN
in 2017 with AMX, its subsidiaries and associated companies
amounted EUR 10m (2016: EUR 4m) and the total value of
purchase transactions amounted EUR 21m (2016: EUR 13m).
The total trade receivables and payables at 31 December 2017,
amounted EUR 1m and less than EUR 1m respectively
(31 December 2016: EUR 5m and EUR 4m respectively).
Other shareholding equaling or exceeding 3% of the issued capital:
 On 17 January 2017, Franklin Mutual Series Fund, Inc. notified
the AFM that it held 5.00% of the shares and voting rights.
 On 23 August 2017, Capital Group International Inc. notified
the AFM that it held 3.01% of the voting rights.
 On 20 December 2017, BlackRock, Inc. notified the AFM that
it held 3.98% of the shares and 4.91% of the voting rights
related to KPN’s ordinary share capital.
To KPN’s knowledge, no other shareholder owned 3% or more
of KPN’s issued share capital as at 31 December 2017. KPN did
not enter into agreements with AMX or other shareholders
which could have a material impact on KPN’s Financial
Statements.
Transactions with associated companies
The total value of sales transactions and purchase transactions
by the continuing operations of consolidated KPN companies
with associated companies and other non-consolidated
companies in 2017 amounted to approximately EUR 23m resp.
EUR 5m (2016: EUR 16m resp. 7m). The total trade receivables
and payables as of 31 December 2017, amounted EUR 3m and
less than EUR 1m respectively (31 December 2016: EUR 4m
resp. EUR 1m).
Transactions with directors and related parties
For details of the relation between directors and the company,
see the ‘Remuneration Report’ on pages 64 to 72 of this
Integrated Annual Report. Directors in this respect are defined
as key management and relate to those having authority and
responsibility for planning, directing, and controlling the
activities of an entity, either directly or indirectly. At KPN, key
management consists of the members of the Board of
Management and Supervisory Board.
The company was not a party to any material transactions, or
proposed transactions, in which members of the Supervisory

121

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements
[23] Proposed appropriation of result

Board or Board of Management or close members of their
families had a direct or indirect material interest.
The total value of sales transactions by KPN’s continuing
operations in 2017 with parties in which members of the
Supervisory Board or Board of Management or close members
of their families had a direct or indirect material interest
amounted EUR 18m (2016: EUR 14m) and the total value of
purchase transactions amounted EUR 24m (2016: EUR 7m),
all in the ordinary course of business. The total trade
receivables and payables 31 December 2017, amounted
EUR 5m and EUR 4m respectively (31 December 2016: EUR 3m
and EUR 2m respectively).

[22] Legal structure
Name of significant subsidiaries
and other principal interests
KPN B.V.:

Percentage
Country of ownership/voting
interest
incorporation
The Netherlands

100

The Netherlands

100

KPN Consulting B.V.

US

100

KPN EuroRings B.V.

The Netherlands

100

KPN Finance B.V.

The Netherlands

100

Reggefiber Group B.V.

The Netherlands

100

Telfort Zakelijk B.V.

The Netherlands

100

XS4ALL Internet B.V.

The Netherlands

100

The Netherlands

100

The Netherlands

100

The Netherlands

100

The Netherlands

100

Germany

8.6

iBasis Inc.

KPN Mobile N.V.:
KPN Mobile International B.V.

Getronics B.V.:
Getronics Finance Holdings B.V.
Telefónica Deutschland Holding AG

122

On outstanding Class B preferred shares, a dividend is paid out
equal to the average of the 12-month Euribor increased by 1%.
If the 12-month Euribor is no longer determined, the dividend
on preference shares will be calculated based on the yield on
State loans. Subsequently, subject to the approval of the
Supervisory Board, the Board of Management will determine
what proportion of net income remaining after payment of the
dividend on any Class B preferred shares will be appropriated
to the reserves. The part of the profit remaining after the
appropriation to the reserves shall be at the disposal of the
AGM. At 31 December 2017, no Class B preferred shares were
outstanding.
In August 2017, a regular interim dividend of EUR 3.7ct per
ordinary share was paid (total amount of EUR 156m). The
Board of Management, with the approval of the Supervisory
Board, will propose to the AGM to pay a final regular dividend
of EUR 7.3ct per ordinary share in respect of 2017 (total amount
of EUR 306m to be increased by dividend on shares issued in
2018 before the ex-dividend date).
In addition, the received dividend on KPN’s shareholding in
TEFD, was distributed in May 2017 as a special interim cash
dividend of EUR 1.7ct per share (total amount of EUR 72m).
This brings the total dividend in respect of 2017 to EUR 12.7ct
per ordinary share (2016: EUR 12.5ct).
Distribution of the proposed final dividend requires an amount
of EUR 51m to be withdrawn from the distributable part of
shareholders’ equity which is proposed to the AGM.

[24] Subsequent events
KPN has evaluated events up to publication date of these
Financial Statements of this Integrated Annual Report and
determined that no subsequent event activity required disclosure.

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

Appendices

Consolidated Financial Statements

Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss
For the year ended 31 December
€ million

Notes

Total revenues and other income
Other operating expenses
Depreciation, amortization and impairments

2017

2016

–

1

-9

3

–

-2

Total operating expenses

-9

1

Operating profit

-9

2

Finance income
Finance costs
Other financial results
Intercompany interest (net)
Financial income and expenses

[A]

71

111

-328

-625

-12

71

-747

-701

-1,016

-1,144

Income from subsidiaries¹

1,251

1,630

Profit before income tax

226

488

Income taxes2

257

305

Profit for the year

483

793

1	  2016 includes EUR 414m with respect to discontinued operations.
2	  2016 includes EUR 16m with respect to discontinued operations.

123

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements

Corporate Statement of Financial Position
Before appropriation of results
Assets
€ million

Notes

31 December
2017

31 December
2016

18,307

33,335

Non-current assets
Financial fixed assets
Investments in subsidiaries
Derivatives

168

298

Deferred taxes

990

1,094

119

1,897

19,584

36,624

Accounts receivable from subsidiaries

155

173

Current income tax receivable

558

–

20

24

Other fixed financial assets
Total non-current assets

[B]

Current assets

Other receivables and accrued income
Available-for-sale financial assets
Other current financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Total current assets
Total assets

124

1,071

–

330

141

682

1,026

2,816

1,364

22,400

37,988

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

Appendices

Equity and Liabilities
31 December
2017

31 December
2016

168

171

Additional paid-in capital

8,445

8,651

Treasury shares reserve

-103

-115

Hedge reserve

-339

-353

€ million

Notes

Equity
Subscribed capital stock

Legal reserves

[C]

169

163

Retained earnings

[C]

-6,554

-6,798

1,089

1,089

Equity attributable to holders of perpetual capital securities
Profit (loss) current year
Total equity attributable to equity holders

483

793

3,358

3,601

46

52

Provisions
Provisions for retirement benefit obligations
Other provisions

23

25

[D]

69

77

[E]

16,807

16,362

Derivative financial instruments

328

197

Other long-term liabilities

100

123

17,235

16,682

1,457

16,579

Total provisions
Non-current liabilities
Loans [E]

Total non-current liabilities
Current liabilities
Accounts payable to subsidiaries

[F]

Derivative financial instruments
Other current liabilities
Accruals and deferred income
Total current liabilities
Total equity and liabilities

[G]

−

1

110

844

171

204

1,738

17,628

22,400

37,988

125

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements

Notes to the Corporate Financial Statements
The principles for the recognition and measurement of assets
and liabilities and determination of the result (hereafter
referred to as ‘Accounting policies’) of the Corporate Financial
Statements of Koninklijke KPN N.V. are the same as those
applied to the Consolidated Financial Statements under IFRS
(applying the option provided in Article 362 sub 8, Part 9, Book
2 of the Dutch Civil Code). The Consolidated Financial
Statements have been prepared in accordance with the IFRS
(see Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements).
The expected impact of the new IFRS standards (IFRS 9, IFRS
15 and IFRS 16) as described in Note 2 of the Consolidated
Financial Statements have corresponding effect on the
Corporate Financial Statements.
Investments in consolidated subsidiaries are measured at net
asset value. Net asset value is based on the measurement of
assets (including goodwill), provisions and liabilities and
determination of profit based on the principles applied in the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

[A] Financial income and expenses
€ million
Finance income
Interest on borrowings
Tender premium

2016

71

111

-322

-395

–

-222

-6

-8

-328

-625

Amortizable part of hedge reserve

-16

-10

Amortization discontinued fair value hedges

39

114

-28

-28

Other
Finance costs

Derivative financial instruments not qualified for
hedge accounting
Other
Other financial results
Intercompany interest (net)
Total

126

2017

-7

-5

-12

71

-747

-701

-1,016

-1,144

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

Appendices

Finance income includes a dividend received from Telefónica
Deutschland (TEFD) of EUR 70m (2016: EUR 110m).
In 2017, interest on borrowings decreased by EUR 73m, which
was mainly related to a lower gross debt position.
Intercompany interest (net) mainly includes interest of 8.5% on
an intercompany loan provided by KPN Mobile N.V., part of
loans payable to subsidiaries (Note F).
[B] Non-current assets
€ million
Balance at 1 January 2016
Exchange rate differences
Income from Group companies after taxes

Group companies

Derivatives

Deferred taxes

Other financial fixed
assets1

Total

31,566

530

1,003

2,309

35,408

27

–

–

–

27
1,630

1,630

–

–

–

Capital contributions

9

–

–

–

9

Fair value adjustments

–

-232

–

-382

-614

Other2
Total changes
Balance at 31 December 2016
Exchange rate differences
Income from Group companies after taxes
Decrease due to sale
Decrease due to settlement²
Capital contributions

103

–

91

-30

164

1,769

-232

91

-412

1,216

33,335

298

1,094

1,897

36,624

-6

–

–

–

-6

1,251

–

–

–

1,251

–

–

–

-846

-846

-16,284

–

–

–

-16,284

23

–

–

–

23

Fair value adjustments

–

-130

–

49

-81

Reclassification³

–

–

–

-1,071

-1,071
-26

-12

–

-104

90

Total changes

-15,028

-130

-104

-1,778

-17,040

Balance at 31 December 2017

18,307

168

990

119

19,584

Other

4

1 The fair value adjustment relates to the stake in TEFD.
2 Decrease relates to the settlement of several intercompany financial current account positions of total EUR 16,284m (see Note F).
3 Reclassification of TEFD from non-current to current available-for-sale financial assets.
4 Deferred taxes mainly relates to the decrease in share price of the stake in TEFD. The deferred tax liability related to TEFD decreased to EUR 61m
(2016: EUR 67m).

127

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Consolidated Financial Statements
[C] Equity attributable to equity holders
For a breakdown of equity attributable to equity holders,
refer to the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and
the Notes thereto.
Legal reserves
Legal reserves (net of tax) are presented below:

€ million
Balance at 1 January 2016

Cumulative
translation
adjustments

Capitalized
software
development
costs

Fair value
reserve
available-forsale financial
assets

Other
nondistributable
reserves

Total

31

16

146

259

54

506

Revaluation
reserve
property, plant
and equipment

Exchange rate differences

–

20

–

–

–

20

Addition/(release) retained earnings

-7

–

-59

–

-48

-114

Other

–

–

–

-249

–

-249

24

36

87

10

6

163

Balance at 31 December 2016
Addition/(release) retained earnings

-4

–

-5

3

12

6

Balance at 31 December 2017

20

36

82

13

18

169

Pursuant to Dutch law, limitations exist relating to the
distribution of equity attributable to equity holders. Such
limitations relate to the subscribed capital stock as well as to
legal reserves required by Dutch law as presented above. The
total distributable reserves at 31 December 2017, amounted to
EUR 3,021m (2016: EUR 3,267m). Dutch law also requires that in
determining the amount for distribution, the company’s ability
to continue to pay its debt must be taken into account,
including the euro perpetual hybrid bonds which are classified
as equity under IFRS.
The movements in the fair value reserve available-for-sale
financial assets mainly relates to the value of the stake in TEFD
(increase in 2017 and decrease in 2016).

128

Financial report
Consolidated Financial Statements

How we safeguard long-term value

Retained earnings
Movements in retained earnings were as follows:
€ million
Balance at 1 January
Profit/loss of previous year
Coupon perpetual hybrid bond (net of tax)
Dividend ordinary shares

[D] Provisions
Movements in provisions were as follows:

2017

2016

-6,798

-6,869

793

638

-51

-51

-513

-460

Actuarial gain/loss pensions and other postemployment plans (net of tax)

12

-57

Release/addition legal reserves

-6

114

–

-89

Acquisitions
Fair value adjustment available-for-sale
financial assets

16

-14

Other

-7

-10

-6,554

-6,798

Balance at 31 December

Retained earnings as per Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position

31 December 31 December
2017
2016
-5,951

-5,859

Revaluation reserve

-20

-24

Capitalized software development costs

-82

-87

Other non-distributable reserves

-18

-6

–

-29

-483

-793

-6,554

-6,798

Reclassification fair value adjustment
available-for-sale financial assets
Profit for the year
Retained earnings as per Corporate
Statement of Financial Position

€ million
Balance at 1 January 2016

Retirement
benefit
Other
obligations provisions
67

Total

22

89

9

Additions/releases to income

3

6

Additions/releases directly in OCI

5

–

5

Usage

-23

-3

-26

Balance at 31 December 2016

52

25

77

Additions/releases to income

2

3

5

Additions/releases directly in OCI

9

–

9

Usage

-17

-5

-22

Balance at 31 December 2017

46

23

69

The provisions for retirement benefit obligations relate to early
retirement plans (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements).

Retained earnings can be reconciled with the Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position as follows:

€ million

Appendices

[E] Loans
Loans include bonds outstanding for EUR 6,477m (2016: EUR
6,680m) and hybrid bonds outstanding for EUR 946m (2016:
EUR 1,030m), see also Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
Furthermore, the loans also include loans from subsidiaries for
EUR 9,384m (2016: EUR 8,652m). This mainly relates to a loan
payable to KPN Mobile N.V., which bears interest of 8.5% and
must be repaid in full, including accrued interest, in 2034.
The loan is subordinated to the unsecured and unsubordinated
creditors of KPN N.V., but ranks ahead of the hybrid capital
securities issued by KPN N.V. as long as by their terms these
hybrid capital securities are expressed to rank pari passu with
the preference share of KPN N.V. and the preference shares
issued by KPN N.V. (if any). There are no loans from subsidiaries
with maturity dates in 2018.
[F] Accounts payable to subsidiaries
Accounts payable to subsidiaries decreased significantly, mainly
due to lower intercompany financial current accounts of total
EUR 1,065m (2016: EUR 16,755m) as a result of the settlement of
several intercompany financial current account positions which
are currently not relevant to continue. Furthermore, it consists of
interest to be paid to KPN Mobile N.V. of EUR 200m,
intercompany settlement of net current income tax position of
EUR 186m and operational financial current account of EUR 6m.
The financial current accounts have indefinite duration. The
interest is annually determined and based on twelve month
Euribor increased by 0.15%, and a risk premium attached by the
market to the specific KPN credit risk.

129

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

Consolidated Financial Statements
[G] Other current liabilities
31 December 31 December
2017
2016

€ million
Current portion of loans
Social security and other taxes payable

–

720

109

124

1

–

110

844

Bank overdrafts
Total

[H] Commitments and contingencies
Commitments by virtue of guarantees amounted EUR 155m
(2016: EUR 155m).
KPN has issued several declarations of joint and several
liabilities for various Group companies in compliance with
Article 403, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. These declarations
of joint and several liabilities for Group companies are included
in a complete list of subsidiaries and participating interests,
which is available at the offices of the Chamber of Commerce in
The Hague.
Directors’ remuneration
See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on
employee benefits.
The Hague, 23 February 2018
Board of Management

Supervisory Board

Eelco Blok

Duco W. Sickinghe

Jan Kees de Jager

Peter A.M. van Bommel

Frank van der Post

Carlos J. García Moreno Elizondo

Joost Farwerck

Derk J. Haank
Peter F. Hartman
Edzard J.C. Overbeek
Jolande C.M. Sap
Claudia J.G. Zuiderwijk

130

The long-term value we create

Financial report
 Combined Independent
Auditor’s Report

How we safeguard long-term value

Appendices

Other Information

Combined Independent Auditor’s Report
Dear Shareholders and members of the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke KPN N.V. (KPN),
Please find below the main conclusions and main features of our audit and review. For the full text of the independent auditor’s
report, which includes the assurance report on sustainability, please refer to the next pages.

Summary
Conclusions
Object of audit or review

Outcome of our work performed

Financial statements 2017 (consolidated and corporate)

True and fair view

Sustainability information 2017:
CO₂ emission data 2017 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands
and the underlying energy data

Reliable and adequate view (reasonable assurance)

Sustainability information 2017 in selected chapters and appendices

Reliable and adequate view (limited assurance)

Other information, including the Reports by the
Board of Management and the Supervisory Board

No material misstatements to report

Main features of our audit & review
What we have done

Scope of our work

Materiality

Key audit & assurance matters

Audit of financial statements 2017
(consolidated and corporate)

Netherlands
United States of America

EUR 45 million, which represents
2.0% of EBITDA

V
 aluation (in)tangible assets, incl.
goodwill
V
 aluation deferred tax assets
IFRS15
R
 eliability of IT systems, including
security and cybercrime

Audit of CO₂ emission data 2017
(Scope 1 and 2) own NL operations
and the underlying energy data

Netherlands

5% deviation

N
 o areas of specific focus

Review of sustainability information
for 2017 in selected chapters and
appendices

Scope varies per country

Specific materiality levels for each
element of the sustainability
information in scope

 O₂ Scope 3 estimates, energy
C
savings by customers
R
 epTrak pulse score, Net
Promoter Score

Procedures for Other information,
including Reports by the Board of
Management and Supervisory
Board

Full reports

Similar materiality as our audit or
review scopes.

N
 o areas of specific focus

131

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Other Information
Combined independent auditor’s report on the 2017 financial statements and sustainability
information
Our conclusions

Basis for our conclusions

Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence
obtained, we have come to the following conclusions:

We performed our assurance engagements in accordance
with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing
and the Dutch Standard 3810N, “Assurance engagements
relating to sustainability reports”, which is a specified Dutch
Standard that is based on the International Standard on
Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 “Assurance
Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial
Information”. Our responsibilities under those standards are
further described in the section: Our responsibilities in this
report.

 ith respect to audit procedures performed; in our opinion,
W
- the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair
view of the financial position of KPN as at 31 December 2017
and of its result and its cash flows for 2017 in accordance
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted
by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2
of the Dutch Civil Code;
- the corporate financial statements give a true and fair view
of the financial position of KPN as at 31 December 2017 and
of its result for 2017 in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of
the Dutch Civil Code;
- CO₂ emission data 2017 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in
the Netherlands and the underlying energy data as
presented on page 34 of the Integrated Annual Report
present, in all material respects, a reliable and adequate view,
in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
Standards and the supplemental KPN reporting criteria as
disclosed in Appendix 3 of the Integrated Annual Report.
 ith respect to review procedures performed on the
W
sustainability information in scope;
nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe
that the sustainability information in scope, does not present
in all material respects, a reliable and adequate view of KPN’s
policy and business operations with regard to sustainability
and the thereto related events and achievements for the year
ended 31 December 2017 in accordance with the GRI
Standards and the supplemental KPN reporting criteria as
disclosed in Appendix 3, ‘Transparency’, of the Integrated
Annual Report.
 ith respect to procedures performed based on the
W
requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and
the Dutch Standard 720, we conclude that the other
information included in the Integrated Annual Report,
including the Reports by the Board of Management and
Supervisory Board:
- Is consistent with the financial statements and does not
contain material misstatements;
- Contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2
of the Dutch Civil Code.

132

We believe the assurance evidence we have obtained is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions.
Our Independence
We are independent of KPN in accordance with the EU
Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of
public-interest entities, the Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties
(Wta, Audit firms supervision act), the Verordening inzake de
onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten
(ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation
with respect to independence) and other relevant independence
regulations in the Netherlands. This includes that we do not
perform any activities that could result in a conflict of interest
with our independent assurance engagement. Furthermore, we
have complied with the ‘Verordening gedrags- en
beroepsregels accountants (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics)’.

Our scope
Our engagements scope
The Integrated Annual Report 2017 (hereafter: the Report) of
KPN consists of the financial statements and other information,
including Reports by the Board of Management and
Supervisory Board, that provides altogether an overview of the
policy, activities, events and performances related to both the
financial position and the sustainable development of KPN
during reporting year 2017. The following information in the
Report has been in scope for our assurance engagements:
 he consolidated financial statements, comprising:
T
- The Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at 31
December 2017;
- The Consolidated Statements of Profit or Loss, Other
Comprehensive Income, Changes in Group Equity and
Cash Flows for 2017;
- The Notes comprising a summary of the significant
accounting policies and other explanatory information.

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report
 Combined Independent
Auditor’s Report

 he corporate financial statements, comprising:
T
- The Corporate Statement of Financial Position as at 31
December 2017;
- The Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss for 2017;
- The Notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies
and other explanatory information.
 he sustainability information in scope consists of:
T
- Reasonable assurance - CO₂ emission data 2017 (Scope 1
and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands and the
underlying energy data as presented on page 34 of the
Integrated Annual Report;
- Limited assurance - The sustainability information in the
following chapters and appendices:
   - Chapters: ‘KPN at a glance’, Who we are and what we do’
and ‘The long-term value we create’;
   - Appendices: Appendix 1-7. This includes Appendix 5:
Social figures, Appendix 6: Environmental figures
(including Scope 3 CO₂ emissions) and Appendix 7: GRI
Content Index, which are available on the website of KPN.
 he other information, including the Reports by the Board of
T
Management and Supervisory Board included in the Report
pursuant to the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch
Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720 concerning our
obligation to report about the management board report and
other information.
Limitations in our engagements scope
Unexamined prospective information
The sustainability information contains prospective information,
such as ambitions, strategy, targets, expectations and
estimates. Inherently, the actual future results are uncertain. We
do not provide any assurance on the assumptions and
achievability of prospective information in the sustainability
information.
Unreviewed references to external sources
The references to external sources or websites in the
sustainability information are not part of the sustainability
information as reviewed by us. We therefore do not provide
assurance on this information.
Our scope for the group audit of the financial statements
KPN is head of a group of entities, both in the Netherlands and
abroad. The Dutch entities and segments thereby form the
majority of the business and there are relatively smaller
operations in the United States of America. The financial
information of all these entities has been included in the
consolidated financial statements.
Our group audit mainly focused on the more significant
segments in the Netherlands, including ‘Consumer’ , ‘Business’,
‘Wholesale’ and ‘NOI’ as well as ‘iBasis’ (United States of America).
Due to their significance and/or risk characteristics, we performed
full scope audit procedures on the financial information of
all above mentioned segments. For the segment in the United

Appendices

States of America we used EY component auditors who are
familiar with local laws and regulations to perform detailed
audit procedures to obtain sufficient coverage for financial
statement line items from a consolidated financial statements
perspective.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we
determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the
audit work to be able to conclude whether sufficient
appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for
our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole. The
group engagement team has visited the component team.
At other group entities we performed review procedures or
specific audit procedures. The group consolidation, financial
disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by
the group engagement team at the company’s head office.
These included revenue assurance, purchase price allocation,
taxation, fixed assets and goodwill impairment, pensions,
derivative financial instruments, hedge accounting and
share-based payments. We involved several EY specialists to
assist the audit team, including specialists from our tax,
valuations, sustainability, actuarial and treasury departments.
By performing audit procedures at segment and at corporate
level as mentioned above, together with the involvement of
specialists, we have been able to obtain sufficient and
appropriate audit evidence about the group’s financial
information to provide an opinion about the consolidated
financial statements.

Reporting criteria
The information in the scope of our engagements needs to be
read and understood together with the reporting criteria, for
which KPN is solely responsible for selecting and applying,
taking into account applicable law and regulations related to
reporting. The criteria used for the preparation of the Report
and thus relevant for our examination are described below. We
consider the reporting criteria used relevant and suitable for
our assurance engagements.
Consolidated Financial
Statements:

International Financial Reporting
Standards as adopted by the
European Union (EU-IFRS) and Part
9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.

Corporate Financial Statements,
Report by the Board of
Management and the Supervisory
Board:

Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil
Code.

Sustainability information
including the CO₂ emission data
2017 (Scope 1 and 2) and the
underlying energy data:

GRI Standards (‘comprehensive’
option) of the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI) and the supplemental
reporting criteria developed by KPN
as disclosed in Appendix 3:
Transparency of the Report. These
criteria include the Greenhouse Gas
Protocol (WRI/WBCSD).

133

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Other Information
Materiality
General:
The scope of our assurance procedures is influenced by the
application of materiality. Our assurance engagements aim to
provide assurance about whether the financial statements and
the sustainability information in scope are free from material
misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error.
They are considered to be material if, individually or in the
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the
(economic) decisions of users taken on the basis of the Report.
The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our
assurance procedures and the evaluation of the effect of
identified misstatements on our conclusions.
Financial statements:
For the audit of the financial statements our considerations
regarding the materiality are as follows.
Materiality

EUR 45,000,000

Benchmark used

2.0% of earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization
(EBITDA).

Additional explanation

The users of the financial
statements of a for-profit entity
typically focus on operating
performance, particularly profit
before tax. Over the past years
KPN’s profit before tax heavily
fluctuated, resulting from the impact
of the discontinuance of operations
and other non-recurring
transactions. Furthermore, we note
that in KPN’s external
communications, earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization (EBITDA) is commonly
used to report on financial
performance. Considering these
aspects, we have concluded that
EBITDA is the most appropriate and
stable benchmark for KPN to base
our materiality upon. The materiality
is thereby set at EUR 45,000,000,
using a percentage of 2.0%, which is
at the lower end of a generally
accepted range. Last year we used
the same percentage and amount.

We have also taken into account misstatements and/or
possible misstatements that in our opinion are material for the
users of the financial statements for qualitative reasons.
We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements in
the financial statements in excess of EUR 2.25 million, would be
reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that in our
view must be reported on qualitative grounds.

134

Sustainability information:
Based on our professional judgment we determined materiality
levels for each part of the sustainability information as a whole.
When evaluating our materiality levels, we have taken into
account quantitative and qualitative considerations as well as
the relevance of information for both stakeholders and the
organization.
For CO₂ emission data 2017 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations
in the Netherlands and the underlying energy data we have
determined the materiality at 5% deviation.
Other information, including the Reports by the Board of
Management and Supervisory Board:
With respect to the materiality applied to our procedures
performed on the other information in our capacity as auditor
of KPN and with the knowledge that we have as auditor to
conclude whether the other information would not be
appropriate or obviously incorrect;
where the other information contains information that has
also been in scope of our assurance engagements regarding
the financial statements or sustainability information, similar
materiality for this information has been applied;
in other cases, our assessment for materiality was based on
findings that could influence the decisions of the users
dependent on our evaluation of the relevance of that
information for these users.

Key audit & assurance matters
Key audit and assurance matters are those matters that, in our
professional judgment, were of most significance in our
assurance procedures for the financial statements and the
sustainability information in scope. We have communicated the
key audit and assurance matters to the Supervisory Board. The
key audit and assurance matters are not a comprehensive
reflection of all matters discussed.
These matters were addressed in the context of our assurance
procedures for the financial statements and the sustainability
information in scope as a whole and to conclude thereon, and
we do not provide a separate conclusion on these matters.
In previous year ‘Sale of BASE Company N.V.’ has been
identified as key audit matter. Since KPN finalized the sale of
BASE Company N.V. in 2016 and we completed our audit
thereon, this is no longer a key audit matter. Following the
adoption of IFRS 15 by KPN retrospectively and the related
restatement of 2017 financial information, a new key audit
matter ‘IFRS 15’ has been included.
General observation:
For the audit of the financial statements, we rely on KPN’s
internal control framework and its governance. The framework

Financial report
 Combined Independent
Auditor’s Report

How we safeguard long-term value

is maintained by the business and continuously tested by KPN
Risk Management and KPN Audit. The Management Board
and Audit Committee are being informed of the outcome of the
tests performed on a quarterly basis. For purposes of our audit,
we assess the adequacy of the framework and we test the work
of KPN Risk Management and KPN Audit. We believe that KPN’s

Key audit matter

Appendices

internal control framework meets the required criteria and it allows
us to perform a system based audit in an effective manner.
The key audit matters addressed below are all covered by
KPN’s internal control framework and have been audited by us
with satisfactory results. For the interest of the reader, we
highlight the most important elements we focused on in 2017.

How our audit addressed the matter

Key observations

Valuation of (in)tangible assets, including goodwill
Under IFRS, it is required to annually test the
amount of goodwill and intangible assets with an
indefinite life for impairment. KPN’s disclosures
about goodwill and intangible assets are included
in Note 11.
No impairments of goodwill and intangible assets
with indefinite life were recorded during 2017.
On assets with finite lives an impairment test has
to be performed if indications of impairment exist.

We compared forecasted revenue and profit
margins for all cash generating units with the
approved KPN strategic plans. We also verified
the assumptions to which the outcome of the
impairment test is most sensitive and reviewed
the sensitivity analysis as included in Note 11 of
the financial statements.
Our audit procedures included, among others,
using EY valuation specialists to assist us in
verifying the assumptions and methodologies
used by KPN.

We concur with management that there is no
need for impairments of goodwill and intangible
assets with indefinite life.

We concur with management on the impairments
recorded.

Some triggering events were identified, for
example in the area of hardware and software
that required impairment testing and for which
minor impairments were recorded.
The impairment tests were important for our
audit as the related asset amounts are significant
and the assessment process itself is complex and
requires judgment. The impairment test includes
assumptions that are affected by future market or
economic conditions.
Key audit matter

How our audit addressed the matter

Key observations

Our audit procedures related to the deferred tax
assets included, amongst others, using EY tax
specialists to assist us in verifying and
interpreting the agreement
(‘vaststellingsovereenkomst’) reached with the
Dutch tax Authorities and evaluating the
assumptions, such as expected future taxable
income and methodologies used by the company.

We concur with the deferred taxes recorded.

Taxes
Deferred tax
At 31 December 2017, the deferred tax assets are
valued at EUR 947 million, related disclosures are
included in the notes to the consolidated
statement of profit or loss in Note 8.
This item was significant to our audit because the
assessment process is complex and judgmental
and is based on assumptions that are affected by
expected future market or economic conditions.

This entailed reviewing the company’s latest
approved strategic plan. We discussed this plan
with management and determined the
reasonableness of the assumptions used
regarding the recoverability of the deferred tax
assets and assessed the plan’s assumptions and
sensitivities.

135

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Other Information
Key audit matter

How our audit addressed the matter

Key observations

We reviewed the IFRS 15 restatements of the
balances as of 1 January 2017 and 31 December
2017 as well as the disclosures included in the
Integrated Annual Report in Note 2.

We agree with the restatements and the
disclosures made in the Integrated Annual Report
in Note 2.

IFRS 15
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’
will be adopted by KPN retrospectively whereby
2017 financial information will be restated in the
2018 financial statements. It will have a significant
impact on revenue recognition as disclosed in Note 2.
In 2017, KPN completed the analysis of the cumulative
transitional adjustment at 1 January 2017 as well
as the impact on 2017.
Reliability of IT systems, including security, cybercrime and data privacy
At KPN, processes are highly automated and KPN
continuously invests in simplification and
improvement of IT systems, which has led to
several changes in 2017 that have been discussed
on page 21. Reliability and security of IT systems
are thereby high on the agenda of KPN and for
that purpose KPN’s internal control framework
includes several controls to ensure, inter alia,
proper identity, access and change management
of its IT systems. KPN also has a security team in
place focusing on policies, security management
and a team of ethical hackers. This team tests the
security of KPN’s IT environment and imitates
behavior of hackers to stay continuously up to
date with the latest developments and helps KPN
in managing their own security risks, including
cybercrime and data privacy.

As part of our audit, we have reviewed the quality
of KPN’s IT systems and the controls embedded
therein with a purpose to express an opinion on
the financial statements. For this purpose, we
performed our own procedures and reviewed and
tested the work done by KPN Risk Management
and KPN Audit. Since this is highly specialized
work, our audit team includes IT specialists.

In a few instances, we identified situations where
controls needed improvement. KPN has set-up
remediation procedures that we have also
reviewed and tested with satisfactory results.

As part of our testing, we reviewed change
management procedures, access management
procedures, the continuity of IT systems and we
reviewed the implementation of new IT systems.

For the assurance procedures concerning the sustainability information in scope, we identified the following key assurance matters:
Key assurance matter

How our assurance procedures addressed the
matter

Key observations

Estimations and assumptions in CO₂ Scope 3 and energy savings by customers
Inherent to the nature of information on CO₂,
Scope 3 and energy savings by customers is that
they are to a large extent based on the use of
estimates and underlying assumptions

Our review procedures focused on evaluating the
suitability and consistent application of the
reporting criteria and assessing the
reasonableness of the assumptions made. We
have also reviewed whether the disclosures in the
integrated annual report are adequate.

We assessed the suitability and consistent use of
the reporting criteria and agreed that
methodologies used are sufficiently disclosed in
Appendix 3 including the restatement of
comparative figures for Scope 3.

Disclosure of methodology for RepTrak pulse score (reputation) and Net Promoter Score in the Netherlands (customer satisfaction)
The indicators RepTrak and NPS are identified by
KPN as part of their representation of key
achievements. The indicators are measured by
third parties. The outcome is influenced by the
methodology used by the third party.

136

Our review procedures focused on evaluating
whether the methodology is suitable and
consistently applied, assessing whether the
transparency on the methodology in KPN’s
Integrated Annual Report is sufficient for a proper
understanding by the reader.

We assessed the suitability and consistent use of
the reporting criteria and agreed that
methodologies used are sufficiently disclosed in
Appendix 3, including the restatement of
comparative figures for RepTrak.

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report
 Combined Independent
Auditor’s Report

Report on other legal and regulatory
requirements
Engagement
We were engaged by the Supervisory Board as auditor of
Koninklijke KPN N.V. on 9 April 2014, as of the audit for the year
2015 and have operated as statutory auditor since that date.
No prohibited non-audit services
We have not provided prohibited non-audit services as referred
to in Article 5(1) of the EU Regulation on specific requirements
regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities.

Responsibilities
Responsibilities of Board of Management and the
Supervisory Board
The Board of Management (hereafter: management) is
responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the
financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and Part 9 of
Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and for the preparation of the
other information, including the Report by the Board of
Management in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch
Civil Code and the other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book
2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
Management is also responsible for the preparation of the
sustainability information in accordance with the GRI Standards
(Comprehensive option) and the supplemental reporting criteria
of KPN, including the identification of stakeholders and the
determination of material topics. The choices made by management
in respect of the scope of the Report and the reporting criteria
are set out in the section entitled “Appendix 3, Transparency” in
the Report.
Furthermore, management is responsible for such internal control
as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation
of the Report that is free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error.

Appendices

Our responsibilities
Our objective is to plan and perform the assurance assignment
in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate
assurance evidence for our conclusions.
Our assurance procedures aimed at obtaining reasonable
assurance have been performed with a high, but not absolute,
level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all
material errors and fraud. The assurance procedures performed
to obtain limited assurance are aimed on the plausibility of
information and vary in nature and timing from, and are less in
extent, than for obtaining reasonable assurance. The level of
assurance obtained in review engagements is therefore
substantially less than the assurance obtained in audit
engagements.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of users
taken on the basis of the financial statements and sustainability
information. The materiality affects the nature, timing and
extent of our assurance procedures and the evaluation of the
effect of identified misstatements on our conclusion.
We apply the ‘Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen’
(Regulations for Quality management systems) and
accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality
control including documented policies and procedures
regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional
standards and other applicable legal and regulatory
requirements.
A further description of our responsibilities is included in the
Annex to the combined independent auditor’s report.
The Hague, 23 February 2018
Ernst & Young Accountants LLP
Signed by F.J. Blenderman

As part of the preparation of the financial statements,
management is responsible for assessing the company’s ability
to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial
reporting frameworks mentioned, management should prepare
the financial statements using the going concern basis of
accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the
company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative
but to do so. Management should disclose events and
circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the
company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the
financial statements.
The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the
company’s (financial) reporting process.

137

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Other Information
Annex to the Combined Independent Auditor’s Report
Work performed
We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained professional skepticism throughout the assurance engagements performed by a multidisciplinary team, in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing and the Dutch Standard 3810N for assurance on sustainability information, ethical
requirements and independence requirements.
Our audit to obtain reasonable assurance about the financial statements
(consolidated and corporate) included the following:
Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial
statements, whether due to fraud or error, designing and performing audit
procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one
resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order
to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
company’s internal control.
Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the
reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by
management.
Concluding on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going
concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit evidence obtained,
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going
concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to
draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the
financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our
opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the
date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause
the company to cease to continue as a going concern.
Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial
statements, including the disclosures.
Evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.

Our review to obtain limited assurance about the sustainability information
included the following:
Performing an external environment analysis and obtaining an insight in
relevant social themes and issues and the characteristics of the organization.
Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used, their
consistent application and related disclosures in the sustainability
information, including the evaluation of the results of the stakeholders’
dialogue and the reasonableness of estimates made by management.
Obtaining an understanding of the reporting processes for the sustainability
information, including obtaining a general understanding of internal control
relevant to our review engagement.
Reconciling the relevant financial information with the financial statements.
Obtaining an understanding of the procedures performed by the internal
audit department of KPN.
Identifying areas of the sustainability information where material
misstatements, whether due to fraud or error, are likely to arise, and
performing further procedures aimed at determining the plausibility of the
sustainability information responsive to this risk analysis. These procedures
consisted amongst others of:
- Interviewing management and relevant staff at corporate level responsible
for the sustainability strategy, policies and results.
- Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the information as
disclosed in the sustainability information, carrying out internal control
procedures on the data and consolidating the data in the sustainability
information.
- Reviewing relevant internal and external documentation, on a limited test
basis; and
- An analytical review of the data and trends submitted for consolidation at
corporate level.
Evaluating the presentation, structure and content of the sustainability
information as a whole, including the disclosures, in relation to the reporting
criteria used.
In addition to the procedures mentioned above, for CO₂ emission data 2017
(Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands and the underlying
energy data we performed following to obtain reasonable assurance:
Obtaining a more detailed understanding of systems and reporting
processes, including where relevant to our assurance engagement, testing
the design, existence and the operating effectiveness of the relevant internal
controls during the reporting year.
Conducting more in-depth analytical procedures and substantive testing
procedures on the relevant data.
A visit to the datacenter in Aalsmeer to validate source data and to evaluate
the design of internal control and validation procedures.
Investigating relevant internal and external documentation a test basis to
determine whether the sustainability information in the Report is reliable.

We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained through our audit of the financial statements or otherwise, we have
considered whether the other information contains material misstatements. By performing these procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of Book
2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of the procedures performed on the other information is less than the scope of those
performed in our audit of the financial statements.
We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the assurance procedures and significant
findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we identify during our assurance procedures. In this respect we also submit an additional report
to the audit committee in accordance with Article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities. The
information included in this additional report is consistent with our audit opinion in this auditor’s report.
Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group audit. In this respect we have
determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures to be carried out for group entities. Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile of the group entities or
operations. On this basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or review had to be carried out on the complete set of financial information or specific items.
We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with
them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements,
the review of the sustainability information in scope and the audit of the CO₂ emission data 2017 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands and the
underlying energy data of the current period and are therefore the key audit & assurance matters. We describe these matters in our combined independent
auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the matter is
in the public interest.

138

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Appendices
 Alternative performance measures

Appendices

Appendix 1: Alternative performance
measures
In the discussion of KPN’s financial results, a number of
alternative performance measures (non-GAAP figures) are
used to provide readers with additional financial information,
that is regularly reviewed by management. These non-GAAP
figures should not be viewed as a substitute for KPN’s financial
results as determined in accordance with IFRS, which are
presented in KPN’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Also,
the additional information presented is not uniformly defined
by all companies, including KPN’s peers. Therefore, the
non-GAAP figures presented may not be comparable with
similarly named numbers and disclosures by other companies.
In addition, readers should be aware that certain information
presented is derived from amounts determined under IFRS, but
is not in itself an expressly defined GAAP measure. Such
non-GAAP measures should not be viewed in isolation or as an
alternative to an equivalent GAAP measure.

Adjusted revenues and adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted revenues and adjusted EBITDA, together also
referred to as the adjusted results, are derived from revenues
(including other income) and EBITDA, respectively, and are
adjusted for the impact of restructuring costs and incidentals.
Incidentals are non-recurring transactions which are not
directly related to day-to-day operational activities at or over
EUR 5m unless significant for the specific reportable segment.

KPN’s management considers these non-GAAP figures,
combined with GAAP performance measures and in
conjunction with each other, most appropriate to measure the
performance of the Group and its Segments. The non-GAAP
figures are used by management for planning, reporting
(internal and external) and incentive purposes.
KPN’s main non-GAAP figures are explained below.
EBITDA
KPN defines EBITDA as operating result before depreciation
(including impairments) of PPE and amortization (including
impairments) of intangible assets. Note that KPN’s definition of
EBITDA deviates from the literal definition of earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and should not
be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analyses of the
results as reported under IFRS as adopted by the European
Union.
2017

2016
(restated)

6,498

6,806

Cost of goods & services

1,923

2,103

€ million
Total revenues and other income

Personnel expenses

1,151

1,175

Information technology /
Technical infrastructure

502

547

Other operating expenses

616

552

Total operating expenses (excl. D&A)

4,192

4,377

EBITDA

2,306

2,429

139

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Appendices
The following table shows the key items between reported and adjusted revenues for the full year.
Revenues

Incidentals

FY 2016
adjusted
restated

y-on-y
reported

y-on-y
adjusted

3,143

–

3,143

0.3%

0.3%

2,198

2,309

–

2,309

-4.8%

-4.8%

-2

678

760

26

734

-11%

-7.6%

–

21

17

–

17

24%

24%

Incidentals

FY 2017
adjusted

FY 2016
reported
restated

3,152

–

3,152

Business

2,198

–

Wholesale

676
21

FY 2017
reported

Consumer

€ million

Network, Operations & IT
Other (incl. eliminations)
The Netherlands

-171

–

-171

-177

–

-177

-3.4%

-3.4%

5,876

-2

5,878

6,052

26

6,026

-2.9%

-2.5%

705

–

705

867

–

867

-19%

-19%

1

–

1

4

–

4

-75%

-75%

-84

–

-84

-117

–

-117

-28%

-28%

6,498

-2

6,500

6,806

26

6,780

-4.5%

-4.1%

iBasis

Other activities
Intercompany revenues
KPN Group

The following table specifies the revenue incidentals in more detail:
Revenue incidentals (€ million)

Segment

Change in revenue related provisions

FY 2017

Wholesale

KPN Group

FY 2016

-2

26

-2

26

The following table shows the key items between reported and adjusted EBITDA for the full year.
EBITDA

€ million
The Netherlands

FY 2017
reported Incidentals

Restruc­
turing

FY 2017
adjusted

FY 2016
reported
restated Incidentals

Restructuring

FY 2016
adjusted
restated

y-on-y
reported

y-on-y
adjusted

2,300

-25

-76

2,401

2,402

32

-41

2,411

-4.2%

-0.4%

iBasis

24

–

–

24

23

–

–

23

4.3%

4.3%

Other activities

-18

–

-10

-8

4

14

-4

-6

n.m.

33%

2,306

-25

-86

2,417

2,429

46

-45

2,428

-5.1%

-0.5%

KPN Group

The following table specifies the EBITDA incidentals in more detail:
EBITDA incidentals (€ million)

Segment

FY 2017

Changes in revenue related provisions

Revenues

-2

26

Addition to asset retirement obligation

Other operating expenses

-7

–

Change of provisions

Other operating expenses

-16

6

Release of provisions

Other operating expenses

–

14

-25

46

KPN Group

140

FY 2016

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Appendices
 Alternative performance measures

Simplification savings or Simplification program
KPN’s Simplification program is directed at realizing
run-rate savings in both capital expenditures (Capex) and
operating expenses (Opex). The Simplification program is
aimed at innovation Capex and the operating expense
categories Personnel expenses, Information Technology /
Technical Infrastructure expenses and Other operating
expenses, excluding restructuring costs and incidentals.
Through its nature the program will also result in a reduction of
FTEs. The baseline for measurement of the second wave
Simplification savings is Capex and operating expense levels at
the end of 2016. The baseline is adjusted for major changes in
the composition of the Group in the years 2017-2019
(acquisitions and disposals). The second wave of the
Simplification program has generated run-rate savings of
approximately EUR 110m by the end of 2017.
Free Cash Flow (FCF)
FCF is defined as cash flow from continuing operating activities
plus proceeds from disposals of PPE minus Capex
(investments in PPE and software).
€ million

2017

2016

Net cash flow provided by operating
activities from continuing operations

1,952

1,924

Capex

-1,139

-1,193

2

10

815

741

Proceeds from real estate
Free cash flow from continuing operations

Net Debt/EBITDA ratio
In then Net Debt/EBITDA ratio, KPN defines Net Debt as
the nominal value of interest bearing financial liabilities
excluding derivatives and related collateral, representing the
net repayment obligations in euro, taking into account 50% of
the nominal value of the hybrid capital instruments, less net
cash and short-term investments. The EBITDA in this context
is normalized EBITDA, a 12-month rolling total EBITDA
excluding restructuring costs, incidentals and major changes
in the composition of the Group (acquisitions and disposals).
The calculation of the Net Debt/EBITDA ratio is provided in
Note 12.4 of the Financial Statements.

141

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Appendices

Appendix 2: Overview and connectivity
of non-financial information
Reference

P

Strategic pillar

Value for
stakeholders

High material topics
Medium material topics

Theme/ KPI

Target
2017

Digital transformation

Customer value

14

Innovate;
Leadership & culture

Integrated
products and
services

16

Grow;
Optimize customer
value, Best services

State-of-the-art
networks and ICT
infrastructure

20

Innovate; Best
connectivity

- Customer loyalty

- NPS NL
- NPS Consumer Mobile
- NPS Consumer Fixed
- NPS Business:
- NPS KPN Fixed-Mobile
- Reputation (RepTrak)¹

9
13
13
0

-Q
 uality and
reliability of network

Shareholder value

23

25

Innovate;
Leadership & culture

Grow: Maximize
value of assets and
services

Value for society
Innovation

- Sustainable employment
- Diversity and equal opportunity

- Economic value

8
14
11
-1
25
70.5
2.19

- Revenue-generating units per
household
- Average revenue per household
- Wholesale mobile customers
- Wholesale fixed connections
- iBasis: Average revenues per minute
- iBasis: Number of minutes

€ 43
775k
931k
EUR 3.8ct
18.7bn

- Weighted downtime (compared to last
year YTD)
- % of households with possibility of
acces to at least 100 Mbps connection

-30%

-38%

78-80%

76%

- Average download speed copper
- Average download speed fiber
- # of customers connected in rural
areas with 4G or combined 4G/DSL
solutions
- Average 4G download speed

N/a
N/a
N/a

N/a
N/a
N/a

40 Mbps

58 Mbps

- Usage of total data traffic
Sustainable
employability

Result 2017

- Overall percentage of women at KPN
in the Netherlands
- Employee survey score for
Engagement
- Sustainable employability: % of
employees with a new external job
after active participation in an
outplacement program

4.7 Tbps
25%

23%

75%

80%

82%

83%

- Adjusted EBITDA
- Free cash flow³
- Capex

€2,417m
€745m
€1.14bn

- Revenues from New services
- M2M Subscribers (#SIMs)
- % of KPN employees in NL who feel
they can work in line with The New
Way of Living and Working

€ 134m
~3.6m
77%

Digital transformation
29

Grow; Build new
revenue streams

- Innovation and investments
- Impact of products and services

90%

1 KPN used to report the December score in the Integrated Report. In 2017 this score was 68.6. As from 2017, KPN yearly reports the fourth quarterly average in
the Integrated Report, which is in line with the figures of similar KPIs, like the NPS. See Appendix 3 for further details.
2 No new target due to a focus change to download speeds as opposed to coverage.
3 Free cash flow excluding Telefónica Deutschland dividend.
High material topic

142

Financial report

How we safeguard long-term value

Appendices
 Overview and connectivity
of non financial information

Result 2016

Result 2015

Target 2018

Target 2019 and beyond

GRI KPI/ref

Impact/SDG

6
10
10
-3

3
9
9
-10

11
16
15
3

> 15 in 2020

Marketing and labeling

9. Industry,
Innovation &
Infrastructure

67.4

70.8

2.16

2.07

Economic performance

11. Sustainable Cities
and Communities

€ 41
778k
1,001k
EUR 4.1ct
20.9bn

€ 39
817k
1,029k
EUR 4.3ct
21.4bn

+ 55%

-61%

-30% c/w 2017

75%

68%

²

Indirect economic
Impacts
ICT infrastructure
investments

9. Industry,
Innovation &
Infrastructure

Employment
Diversity and equal
opportunity
Non-discrimination
Labor/management
relations/
Occupational helth and
safety
Training and education

5. Gender Equality
8. D
 ecent Work and
Economic Growth
4. Quality Education

>30 Mbps
>100 Mbps
20,000
58 Mbps

3.4 Tbps

50 Mbps
in cities
2.6 Tbps

24%

25%

27,5%

30% (exact year still to be determined).

77%

77%

80%

>75%

87%

83%

>80%

>80%

€2,428m
€631m
€1.19bn

€2,419m
€552m
€1.3bn

Economic performance

€115m
~2.5m
82%

N/a
~1.5m
80%

Indirect economic
impacts
ICT infrastructure
Investments

51 Mbps

90%

90%

8. D
 ecent Work and
Economic Growth
11. Sustainable Cities
and Communities

143

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Appendices
Reference

P

Strategic pillar

Reliability:
Privacy and
security

32

Innovate: Best
connectivity

Sustainability:
Environmental
performance

Sustainability:
Solutions for a
sustainable supply
chain

Sustainability:
Social Inclusion

34

38

40

Grow: Build new
revenue streams

Grow:
Build new revenue
streams

Grow: Build new
revenue streams

High material topics
Medium material topics
- Security
- Privacy and identity
- Impact of products and services

- Environmental performance
- Impact of products and services

- Sustainable suppliers
- Impact of products and services

- Community investment
- Digital inclusion
- Diversity and equal opportunity
- Impact of products
and services

4 For customer owned equipment a circular alternative will be available.
High material topic

144

Target
2017

Result 2017

- % of customers helped (within eight
hours) who were unintentionally
infected by malware
- % of Dutch people that believe their
data is safe with KPN

98%

99%

70%

70%

- % Reduction of energy consumption
KPN Group compared to 2010
- Absolute car fuel savings compared to
2010
- Data centers: more energy efficient
compared to 2010 (PUE)
- Collecting customer equipment (KPN
specified)
- % Reuse and recycling
- Energy savings by customers as % of
KPN Group
- Climate-neutral own operations

21%

24%

40%

43%

15.5%

15%

80%

~85%

N/a
56%

53%
60%

100%

100%

- CO₂ reduction in the chain (scope 3)

Roadmap
ready

12%

- Fossil fuel-free cars added to fleet
(lease pool + engineers)

N/a

7%

- % realized improvements on
corrective action plans
- % high-risk Tier I, Tier II and Tier III
suppliers audited
- % Circular procurement
- Sustainable solutions with impact
1 year including a cost saving
component for KPN.

60%

82%

35%

42%

3 suppliers
4

7 suppliers

- # Elderly facilitated to life
independently
- % chronically ill children provided
with a KPN Klasgenoot
- # of people with secure digital access
to healthcare
- # of ill people facilitated with
self-measurement

15,500

11,446

100%

100% (1109)

N/a

N/a

17,500

11,860

Theme/ KPI

Financial report

How we safeguard long-term value

Appendices
 Overview and connectivity
of non financial information

Result 2016

Result 2015

Target 2018

Target 2019 and beyond

GRI KPI/ref

Impact/SDG

96%

72%

98.5%

99% >2020 (exact year still to be determined)

Customer privacy
Secure use of products
and services

9. Industry,
Innovation
& Infrastructure

70%

73%

70%

70% until 2020

20%

18%

22%

25% in 2020 / 55% in 2030

39%

35%

44%

100% new cars without CO₂ emissions from 2025

12. Responsible
Consumption and
Production
13. Climate action

15%

13%

15.5%

19% in 2020; 2030: on top with top 3 in Europe

Materials
Energy
Emissions
Effluents and waste
Environmental
compliance

74%

62%

85%

46%
54%

47%
49%

55%
64%

 ew equipment in networks offices and for KPN-owned
N
devices circular > 2025
~100% circular operations and services in 2025
>80% in 2020

100%

100%

100%

N/a

N/a

Projects to
reduce

N/a

N/a

15%

1 00% until 2050: from 2030 without compensating for car
fuels (science-based target)
20% reduction emissions in 2025 compared to 2014; 50%
reduction Scope 3 emissions in 2040 compared to 2014
(science-based target)
100% in 2025

77%

58%

70%

N/a

N/a

N/a

40%

40%

N/a
N/a

N/a
N/a

15 suppliers
4

~100% circular for new products from 20254.
4

Supplier environmental
assessment
Freedom of association
and collective bargaining
Bargaining
Child labor
Forced or compulsory
labour
Human rights
assessment
Supplier social
assessment

17. P
 artnership for the
Goals
12. Responsible
Consumption and
Production

11,317

N/a

12,500

100% (987)

837

100%

Self-reliance for ~160.000 end-users in 2020 with smart
monitoring services
100%

Non discrimination
Diversity and equal
opportunity

Reducerd inequalities
11. Sustainable Cities
and Communities”

N/a

N/a

22,500

In 2020 significant contribution to triple aim
(better health, better quality, better value)

12,245

N/a

N/a

Indirect economic
impacts
ICT infrastructure
investments

8. D
 ecent Work and
Economic Growth
11. Sustainable Cities
and Communities

145

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Appendices

Appendix 3: Transparency
About this report
Scope sustainability information
The purpose of the information in this report is to inform our
stakeholders about our role in society, in connection with our
main strategic objectives and targets. We regard as
stakeholders all people and organizations affected by our
operations or with whom we maintain a relationship, such as
customers, employees, shareholders, banks, suppliers,
journalists, partners and social organizations. For more
information on our stakeholder approach for specific
stakeholder groups, see Stakeholder dialogue in this Appendix.
The scope of the information in this report covers the KPN
Group including subsidiaries in which KPN has a majority
shareholding. The scope has not changed compared with last
year’s report. Unless stated otherwise, references to KPN
should be read as referring to the KPN Group. In this report
(including the GRI Content Index and social and environmental
appendices published on our website), KPN in the Netherlands
refers to all the activities of the KPN Group in the Netherlands.
Outside the Netherlands, our divisions are iBasis and Ortel
Mobile. For our non-financial information, we include new
acquisitions in our report as of the first full year of ownership.
Non-financial information for divestments that occurred during
the reporting year is excluded for the full year. The data in this

report refers to KPN’s performance and not to that of our
subcontractors, unless stated otherwise. The full scope of the
financial information is reported in the Consolidated Financial
Statements (pages 76 to 138).
This report specifically reviews developments and performance
in 2017 and is based on topics identified as high material for
KPN. Aspects of a more static nature (such as our management
approaches to our CSR themes and our stakeholders) or with
less reporting priority (such as our impact on biodiversity and
the list of external memberships) are included in the GRI
Content Index (www.kpn.com/annualreport) or reported on
corporate.kpn.com/dutch-society.htm.
Reporting criteria non-financial information
The Integrated Annual Report is published on 26 February,
2018. We have prepared this report in line with the International
Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Integrated Reporting (IR)
framework. For the sustainability information included in this
report we followed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
Standards - Option Comprehensive and self-developed
reporting criteria as disclosed in this Appendix. We comply with
the EU Directive Non-Financial Reporting, and integrated all
elements in our Integrated Annual Report.

EU Directive 2014/95/EU: Non-Financial Information and Diversity information reference table
Requirements EU Directive

Subtopic

Chapter / Page reference

A brief description of the business model

The business environment

Our purpose and the world around us, p.6
Our strategy and activities, p 8-9
Our value creation model, p. 10-11
Our capitals to operate, p. 13

Organisation and structure

Our strategy and activities, p 8-9
Our value creation model, p. 10-11
Our capitals to operate, p. 13

Markets where the undertaking operates

Our purpose and the world around us, p.6
Our strategy and activities, p 8-9
Our value creation model, p. 10-11
Our capitals to operate, p, 13

Objectives and strategies

Our strategy and activities, p 8-9
Our value creation model, p. 10-11
Our capitals to operate, p. 13

Main trends and factors that may affect the
undertaking’s future development

Our purpose and the world around us, p.6

A description of the policies pursued, including due
dilligence.

Sustainable employability, p. 22

The outcome of those policies.

Sustainable employability, p. 22

Principle risks in own operations and within value
chain.

Sustainable employability, p. 22
Appendix 8: List of top risks, p. 184-190

How risks are managed.

Compliance & risk, p.46
Appendix 8: List of top risk, p. 184-190

Non-financial key performance indicators.

Sustainable employability, p. 22

Relevant social and personnel matters
(e.g. HR, safety etc.)

146

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Appendices
 Scope, reporting process and
materiality determination

Requirements EU Directive

Subtopic

Chapter / Page reference

Relevant environmental matters
(e.g. climate-related impacts)

A description of the policies pursued, including due
dilligence.

Sustainability, p. 34
Environmental performance, p.34

The outcome of those policies.

Sustainability, p. 34
Environmental performance, p.34

Principle risks in own operations and within value
chain.

Sustainability, p. 34
Environmental performance, p.34
Compliance & risk, p.46

How risks are managed.

Compliance & risk, p.46

Non-financial key performance indicators.

Sustainability, p. 34
Environmental performance, p.34

A description of the policies pursued, including due
dilligence.

Sustainability throughout the supply chain, p.38

The outcome of those policies.

Sustainability throughout the supply chain, p.38

Principle risks in own operations and within value
chain.

Sustainability throughout the supply chain, p.38

How risks are managed.

Compliance & risk, p.46

Non-financial key performance indicators.

Sustainability throughout the supply chain, p.38

A description of the policies pursued, including due
dilligence.

Implement a strong risk culture, p. 46
Insider transactions, p. 56
Sustainability throughout the supply chain, p.38

The outcome of those policies.

Implement a strong risk culture, p. 46
Insider transactions, p. 56
Sustainability throughout the supply chain, p.38

Principle risks in own operations and within value
chain.

Implement a strong risk culture, p. 46
Appendix 8: List of top risks, p. 184-190

How risks are managed.

Implement a strong risk culture, p. 46

Non-financial key performance indicators.

Implement a strong risk culture, p. 46
Sustainability throughout the supply chain, p.38

A description of the policies pursued.

Diversity & inclusion, p.23
Report of the Supervisory Board, p.58”

Diversity targets

Diversity & inclusion, p.23
Report of the Supervisory Board, p.58

Description of how the policy is implemented

Diversity & inclusion, p.23
Report of the Supervisory Board, p.58

Results of the diversity policy

Diversity & inclusion, p.23
Report of the Supervisory Board, p.58

Relevant matters with respect for human rights
(e.g. labor protection)

Relevant matters with respect to anti-corruption
and bribery

Insight into the diversity (Board of Management
and Supervisory board)

The Option - Comprehensive of the GRI Standards means that
KPN reports on all general standard disclosures and all specific
standard disclosures related to identified material topics. The
process for defining the material topics and report content, as
well as the list of material topics, is described in the materiality
determination. The results of this assessment (list of material
topics for KPN, including their reporting priority) determine
which GRI indicators are set out in the Integrated Report and
which indicators are featured only on our website or in our GRI
Content Index. The overview can be found in the GRI Content
Index in Appendix 7: GRI Content Index. In addition to these
GRI Standards, KPN has included the pilot version of the
Telecommunications Sector Supplement, as published by GRI
in 2003, in determining material disclosures, resulting in five
additional topics and indicators in the GRI Content Index. For
one high material topic, customer loyalty, KPN uses and reports
bespoke performance indicators, as outlined in the GRI Index in
Appendix 7.

The GRI Content Index specifies the aspect boundaries and
omitted indicators where relevant (including clarifications).
This Integrated Annual Report has been prepared in
accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option.
Where available and relevant, the report includes data for
previous years. Quantitative data concerning the workforce and
financial results set out in this report has been collected using
our financial data management system. The remaining data,
set out in this report, has been collected using a standardized
questionnaire that was completed with data from information
management systems by the responsible KPN business units.
The Internal Audit and Corporate Control departments used
consistency and availability of supporting evidence as the basis
for their assessment of the data reported at group level.
Validation criteria set out in advance were also used to assess
the data.

147

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Appendices
External assurance
In order to provide our stakeholders comfort over the reliability
of our reporting, we engaged EY as an independent assurance
provider to perform an assurance engagement with the aim of
obtaining reasonable assurance on CO₂ emission data 2017
(Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands and the
underlying energy data as presented on page 34 of the
Integrated Annual Report and limited assurance on other
sustainability information as disclosed in the following
chapters and appendices:
- Chapters: KPN at a glance, Who we are and what we do and
The long-term value we create;
- Appendices: Appendix 1-7: This includes Appendix 5:
Social figure’, Appendix 6: Environmental figures
(including Scope 3 CO₂ emissions) and Appendix 7: GRI
Content Index, which are available on the website of KPN.
The key social and environmental figures, which are available in
the Appendices 5 and 6 on www.kpn.com/annualreport, are also
part of this report. Partly, they provide more detailed numbers
on key figures that reflect on high material topics within the
report (such as CO₂-emissions and electricity consumption).
The report contains prospective information, such as ambitions,
strategy, targets, expectations and projections. Inherent to this
information is that actual future results may be different from
the prospective information and therefore it may be uncertain.
Therefore, the assumptions and feasibility of this prospective
information is not covered by the external assurance.
The Audit Committee approved every engagement of the
external auditor, after pre-approval by the internal auditor, in
order to avoid potential breaches of the external auditor’s
independence. For EY’s assurance report we refer to p. 131.
Reporting ambitions
KPN adheres to several reporting benchmarks, like the Dow Jones
Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the Transparency Benchmark.
By doing this, we keep improving our performance and our way
of reporting by comparing it with that of peers and
expectations from the industry and other stakeholders. Our
reporting ambitions for the following years are to:
	keep reporting in line with the IIRC framework and in
accordance with GRI standards;
	keep reporting on high material topics;
	report more on qualitative and quantitative value creation for
society; and
	maintain a leading position in several benchmarks like the
Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the Transparency
Benchmark.

148

Scoping and calculation methodologies environmental
figures
Calculation and determination of reported emissions
In the Integrated Annual Report, KPN reports the CO₂
emissions in the chapter Sustainability and in Appendix 6.
Reporting is done in accordance with the guidance and
standards of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and the ISO 14064-1
standard. KPN uses the operational control approach when
reporting CO₂ emissions. Carbon dioxide (CO₂) is the most
relevant greenhouse gas to KPN. Where available, we have
taken CH₄ and N₂O into consideration in our greenhouse gas
emissions information. We use the term ‘CO₂-emissions’ to refer
to the greenhouse gas emissions reported on. These are stated
in CO₂ equivalents. The net Scope 2 emissions are market
based and calculated based on the tank-to-wheel (TTW)
CO₂-emissions factors for renewable electricity. For renewables
(wind, biomass, solar) the TTW values are all zero. The CO₂emissions of the well-to-tank (WTT) phase are accounted for
in our Scope 3 emissions (category 3 – Fuel and energy related
activities). The gross emissions disclosed on page 34 are
location based and calculated with grid mix emissions factors.
The KPN emissions report is subdivided as follows:
Scope 1 – Direct emissions:
	Fuel consumption of the lease vehicle fleet (employees’
passenger vehicles and commercial vehicles)
	Heating of buildings (gas)
	Consumption of coolants for air conditioning and/or cooling
	Fuel consumption of emergency power generators
Scope 2 – Indirect emissions:
	Electricity consumption of the fixed and mobile networks,
datacenters, offices and shops
	District heating
	District cooling
Accuracy
The accuracy of the electricity consumption data is a key factor
in the reliability of the CO₂-emissions calculations. In the data
collection process, a number of factors affect the accuracy of
the collected data. In general, the data originating from direct
measurements and recordings or invoices including
measurements from third parties are the most accurate. As our
electricity providers estimate the electricity consumption for a
part of our network operations because not in all cases a
monthly meter reading is performed, some uncertainty exists
about the accuracy and completeness of our energy
consumption. To improve accuracy and transparency we are
migrating to remote readable meters.

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Scope 3 – Other indirect emissions:
	Emissions in our upstream value chain (during the production
phase of our products, services and equipment at our suppliers)
	Emissions in our downstream value chain (during the use
phase including recycling and disposal of the products,
services and equipment).
We have used two main methodologies to calculate our Scope
3 emissions:
	Spend-based method which takes procurement data and
calculates the emissions within an environmentally extended
economic input-output (EEIO) model to assess the emissions.
We used actual data covering January to November and
extrapolated to full year.
	Process-based method which uses quantity-based data to
evaluate the emissions associated with specific activities, e.g.
kWh of energy usage or quantity of materials purchased to
manufacture goods.

Appendices
 Scope, reporting process and
materiality determination

We have improved our calculation method for our Scope 3
reporting. For categories 1, 2 and 9, we updated the accuracy of
the used inflation factors and we improved our calculation
method to include all spend not only in the reporting year but
also for the 2014 - 2016 figures. We restated categories 11 & 13
for the years 2015 and 2016 using a new more accurate
reported grid mix for grey electricity in the Netherlands. We
updated our base year figures (2014) accordingly, but did not
adjust our Scope 3 reduction targets: 20% in 2025 and 50% in
2040 compared to base year 2014.
Calculation of emission methods, coverage and assurance is
described in the table below.

Location- /
Market-based Assurance

Emission factor /
Green energy

Scope CO₂

Standard

Scope

Coverage

Approach

Scope 1

GHG Protocol
Scope 1
Guidance

KPN Group

98% of all KPN
business units
and subsidiaries
(Opex/FTE)

Operational control Market based
approach

NL:
Reasonable
Non.NL:
Limited

co2emissiefactoren.nl version
9-1-2018
Gold standard & forest
compensation

Scope 2

GHG Protocol
Scope 2
Guidance

KPN Group

98% of all KPN
business units
and subsidiaries
(Opex/FTE)

Operational control Market based
approach

NL:
Reasonable
Non.NL:
Limited

co2emissiefactoren.nl version
9-1-2018
100% green electricity

Scope 3
Cat:
1, 2, 5, 9

GHG Protocol
Scope 3
Guidance

Netherlands

98% of all KPN
business units
and subsidiaries
(Opex/FTE)

Spend based
(Environmentally
Extended Input
Output data
(EEIO) approach)

Location
based

Limited

UK DEFRA 2014

Scope 3
Cat:
3, 6, 7, 11, 13

GHG Protocol
Scope 3
Guidance

Netherlands

98% of all KPN
business units
and subsidiaries
(Opex/FTE)

Process and
activity based

Location
based

Limited

co2emissiefactoren.nl version
9-1-2018

GHG Protocol
Scope 3
Cat: 4, 8, 10, 12, Scope 3
Guidance
14, 15

Netherlands

98% of all KPN
business units
and subsidiaries
(Opex/FTE)

Not applicable
for KPN

Not applicable Limited

Not applicable

149

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Appendices
Calculation methodology avoided energy consumption
by ICT services
The calculation of the avoided energy consumption, CO₂ e
emission and the cost reduction for our customers is based on
models per service. The results are presented on page 37 and
in Table 8 of Appendix 6: Environmental Figures.
Avoided energy consumption

Percentage of avoided Kind of avoidance
energy consumption
(most impact)

Source KPN measurement

Source external information

Teleworking
(enabled by KPN connectivity)

74%

Avoided travel

Number of customers

Publicly available statistics and
reports from CBS¹;
KiM², TNO³ and Telecompaper
Research including rebound effect
from heating/light at home

KPN Audioconferencing

7%

Avoided travel

Number of audioconferencing; average
number participants
per meeting

Statistics and reports
(see above)

KPN Colocation
(Housing)

6%

Energy savings

Energy efficiency KPN
datacenter

Energy efficiency
ICT environment customer

KPN Hosting

2%

Energy savings

Energy efficiency KPN
datacenter

Energy efficiency
ICT environment customer

Dematerialization

7%

Energy and raw materials
savings

CD and DVD papers avoided
by e.g. Spotify, Netflix

Life cycle information products

iTV Cloud solution

1%

Energy and raw materials
savings

Number of customers,
energy consumption
KPN Cloud for iTV

Managed workspaces
(KPN Werkplek)

0%

Energy savings

Number of KPN Werkplekken

KPN Video Conferencing

3%

Avoided travel

Number of videoconferences;
average travel savings per
meeting

In the calculation we used actual data covering January to
November and extrapolated to full year. For some parameters
in the Teleworking calculation different values were published.
The approach in those cases was to take the average between
the lowest reported value and the highest reported value in
reports and research. This was done for the following
parameters: number of telecommuters, the saved office space
due to teleworking and the extra energy consumption at home
when working at home (rebound effect). Cost savings were
calculated by multiplying average fuel, electricity and gas
prices published by CBS and Milieucentraal by the estimated
avoided net energy consumption.
These KPN volumes and reference values are based on several
sources:
	Actual measurements (by KPN, by customers or other
sources);
	Publicly available data and statistics from governments,
research institutes, and sector organizations (e.g. CBS, GeSI,
ITU, CarbonTrust);
	External expertise from consultancy firms Scenario analyses
based on KPN’s savings calculation tool; and
	Expert judgments (KPN product management and other
sources).

150

Publicly available data on energy
consumption laptops and tablets

Other calculation methodologies
RepTrak
RepTrak is developed by the Reputation Institute and is used
as a method to calculate the reputation score of companies
worldwide. The RepTrak methodology measures also the
drivers of reputation and the consequences for supportive
behaviour. The Reputation Institute’s policy is to adjust all
RepTrak scores by standardizing them against the aggregate
distribution of all scores obtained from the Reputation
Institutes’s Annual Global RepTrak Pulse. Standardization has
the effect of lowering scores in countries that tend to over-rate
companies, and has the effect of raising scores for companies
in countries that tend to rate companies more negatively.
All RepTrak scores are culturally standardized. This means that
all RepTrak results are comparable across countries, industries
and over time. Every month, the progress on the key attributes
that stimulate reputation and supportive behavior is measured.
The results are based on a minimum of 300 respondents per
company each quarter. The data collection method is an online
interview of 20 minutes. The qualified respondents have to be
familiar or very familiar with the company. Per 1 January 2011,
Reputation Institute started using an updated cultural bias
adjustment procedure, whereby the cultural adjustment
analysis was rebased based on the latest reputation scores.

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Appendices
 Scope, reporting process and
materiality determination

Because KPN was already in the midst of the process of setting
KPIs, KPN requested the Reputation Institute to report KPN’s
reputation scores using the ‘old’ cultural bias adjustment
analysis. Hence, this report shows ‘unrebased’ reputation
scores for KPN. KPN used to report the December score in the
Integrated Report. In 2017 this score was 68.6. As from 2017,
KPN reports the fourth quarterly average in the
Integrated Report every year, which is in line with the figures of
similar KPIs, like the NPS.

The peak figures included in this report are provided by the
KPN Capacity Management department. The data demand
peak for main traffic streams (expressed as data in terabit per
second) is based on maximum loads for these streams
measured continuously in five minute timeframes. These
streams are KPN i-TV, Netflix, Google and other internet traffic.
In this report all annual data demand peaks refer to Q4
(October, November and December) of the respective year.

Net Promoter Score (NPS)
We use NPS as the leading indicator to measure customer
loyalty. The NPS results included in this report are calculated
and provided by a leading market research company in the
Netherlands.

Stakeholder engagement and materiality
determination

NPS is based on direct customer input, with the key question
being whether a customer would recommend KPN to someone
else.. Depending on the score they give, the customer is
classified as a ‘promoter’ or a ‘critic’. The NPS is calculated by
subtracting the percentage of ‘critics’ from the percentage of
‘promoters’. The result is displayed as an absolute number
instead of a percentage, within a range of -100 to +100.
In this report, all NPS results refer to Q4 of the respective year,
based on a 3-month rolling average (December 17 is based on
October 17, November 17 and December 17). The NPS
Consumer (Consumer Residential and Consumer Mobile) and
NPS Business reflect a weighted average based on sales. The
main score for NPS NL is the average of the segments NPS
consumer mobile’, NPS consumer residential’ and NPS
Business.
100 Mbps access
The KPI ‘% Households with possibility of at least a 100 Mbps
connection’ applies to households with the possibility to get
access to internet download speeds of at least 100 Mbit per
second. The reported percentage is calculated by dividing the
number of household connections, to whom this applies, by the
total number of households in the Netherlands.
The download speed that we report is the theoretical speed
that we should be able to deliver to the service provider.
The KPI is measured monthly. In this report, the results are
based on the situation at the end of December 2017. This KPI is
a successor of the KPI ‘% Households with possibility for more
than 40 Mbps connection’. In all the years that we published
these KPIs, we always published December’s figures.
Usage of Total data traffic
We use the data demand peak as the key indicator to measure
continuous growth of data usage within our networks.
1 CBS: (Centraal Bureau voor de Statistiek of the Dutch government)
2 KiM: Kennisinstituut voor Mobiliteitsbeleid - Ministery of Infrastructure and
Environment)
3 TNO: Dutch organisation for applied scientific research

Materiality
The annual materiality assessment makes sure we are aware of
what happens in our surroundings, where we have impact and
how we can add focus to our efforts. It is performed to make
sure we report on all relevant topics in this Integrated Report.
The assessment is approved by the Board of Management.
The process consists of three steps:
Step 1: Identification of relevant aspects and other topics
KPN annually updates a shortlist of relevant topics based on
internal and external developments. Relevant topics are those
with which KPN has or can have an impact, inside the
organization and in the value chain or society. Where relevant,
topics are further defined and missing topics are added,
including topics identified during media scans and stakeholder
dialogues. Updating the shortlist resulted in incorporating the
topic ‘Non-discrimination’ in the topic ‘Diversity and equal
opportunities’. In order to cover the content the following
topics are renamed:
Topics name in 2016

Topics name in 2017

Tax policy

Tax position

Direct economic value

Economic value

Internal human rights issues

Internal human rights adherence.

Due to the focus on value creation in this year’s Integrated
Annual Report, the value retention topics, ‘Remuneration’ and
‘Compliance and risk’, are not included in the shortlist.
Especially since these topics are required topics to report on
from legal reporting requirements.
During an internal consultation held with employees
representing all sections of KPN, the shortlist is validated. This
has led to the addition of the topics ‘Digital transformation’ and
‘(Digital) knowledge and education’. The topic Privacy and
security was split into the topics ‘Privacy and Identity’ and
‘Security’. The topic ‘Fair marketing communications’ has been
renamed ‘Fair marketing and communication’.

151

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Appendices

Step 2: Determining reporting priority
The second step aims to assess the relative impact KPN has
with the identified topics on society. The outcome is presented
on the graphically in the materiality matrix below and used as
both input and validation of our (CSR) strategy, policies and
approach and reporting scope. KPN assesses all relevant topics
on: (1) the significance of KPN’s impacts and (2) the influence
on stakeholder decisions.

The determining of the materiality involves the following
processes:
	an internal consultation held with employees representing all
sections of KPN in order prioritize the shortlist topics from
KPN’s perspective; and
	desk research in order to prioritize the shortlist topics from
our stakeholder’s perspective. The research is based on a
media search and a comparison with several peers, NPS
analysis, investors opinion, and input of the advisory board.

Influence on stakeholder assessments and decisions

Materiality assesment

1
6

7
11
15

16

3

12
14

10

8

5

13

18
21

19

20

2
4

9

17

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.

Customer loyalty
Quality and reliability of network
Digital transformation
Security
Economic value
Privacy and ldentity
Environmental performance
Impact of products and services
lnnovation and investments
Digital inclusion
Sustainable employment
Community investment
Sustainable suppliers
Fair marketing communication
Diversity and equal opportunities
Tax position
(Digital) knowledge and education
lnternal human rights adherence
Electromagnetic fields/radiation
Participation in public policy development
Biodiversity

Significance of KPN's economic, environmental and social impacts

The combination of the horizontal axis and the vertical axis
determines the degree of impact that KPN has with the topic
on society. KPN divides the results into three categories:
	High material topics: we aim to fulfill a leading role on these
topics. By developing policies, setting targets and defining
KPI’s to monitor and report on our impact.
	Medium material topics: we want to demonstrate our social
responsibility regarding these topics.
	Low material topics: these are topics we monitor, but do not
necessarily report on.

Step 3: Implementation
Based on the priority outcomes of the materiality
determination, approved by the Board of Management, we
determine the topics to be addressed in the report, including the
scope and aspect boundaries of all material topics. Business
units are informed on new and altered topics to be acted and
reported on, to prepare reporting systems, enhance internal
mechanisms, develop reporting definitions and, where relevant,
targets. Timelines are developed and new/altered topics are
included in the relevant reporting process mechanisms.

In order to see where the aspect can be found and which GRI
topics are translated into KPN topics, please see the crossreference in the connectivity matrix.

Stakeholder dialogue
KPN is in continuous dialogue with a diverse set of stakeholders,
with equally diverse interests and motivations. These dialogues
take place on different levels within our organisation and are
often a part of our daily business.
In the table below, we provide insight into all the interactions
we have had with different stakeholders.

152

How we safeguard long-term value

Stakeholder
group

What they expect

Employees

Employees expect us to provide
personal possibilities to strive in
the dynamic workplace. For them,
this translates into
a tailor-made workplace (physical,
technology, learning and
development); simplicity in data,
organisation, technology and
processes; transparency in
the organisation and from
leadership and a recognisable
culture and values.

Financial report

How we engage
(incl. frequency)

To some the changing conditions
in the world and the labor market
may feel like a threat. That is a
natural reaction and we feel it as
our responsibility as an employer
to both create awareness of the
consequences of the fast
changing environment and
encourage and enable people to
seize the possibilities it offers. In
the long run, KPN’s HR function
will more and more be using data
& digital and robotisation & AI to
create an employee experience in
New generations expect
generational awareness, dynamic response to increasing
consumerism that will take shape
career perspectives, continuous
in alternative employment
feedback, mentoring and
coaching and empowerment and relations.
agility.

Appendices
 Scope, reporting process and
materiality determination

Main topics in 2017

Our response

L
 eadership that supports our
culture as described in the KPN
Greenprint.
S trategic Workforce
Management that focuses on
rationalisation and
standardisation, contract
independent sourcing and
capacity planning.
A
 future-proof organisational
design with room for
authenticity and diversity.
P
 roactive and valuable people &
data analytics.
Integral management of our HR
chains in which run and change
are balanced.
P
 erformance management with
room for new ways of working
that leads to empowered
employees.
R
 ight sizing of our collective
labor conditions to support this.

D
 evelopment of our engineers
and retail sales people.
A
 gile on Tour to support
continuous personal
development.
F uture-proof individuals and
organisation’ as main theme in
preparing for the CLA
negotiations.

Government
Government and regulators
and regulators expect us to comply with the
rules and regulations and meet
the requirements for licensing.
Furthermore, they expect us to
be climate responsible and
transparent in our
communication. Their goal is,
amongst others, to create a level
playing field and protect the
interests of end-users. They
expect us to run infrastructure
and services considered as very
important to the Dutch economy
and Dutch society at large and to
create coverage of high speed
networks, wireless and wireline.

We proactively engage with
government and regulators. As
the incumbent in the
Netherlands, there are special
obligations imposed on us, in
particular to enable competition
via regulated access to our fixed
network. We engage in a
continuous dialog to explain our
efforts and results. Furthermore,
we work together with (local)
governments on innovation (e.g.
IoT) projects which result in
energy and cost savings.

A
 voiding non-compliance
Integrity and transparancy
F or the next three years, ACM
wants KPN to continue to grant
its competitors access to its
copper and fiber-optic network.
C
 oncerns have been increasing
concerning national (cyber)
security throughout 2017.

W
 e continued our compliance
efforts through programs such
as optimizing our business
control system, external reviews,
benchmarking, enhanced
compliance training and top
management meetings. We
work continuously to meet
compliance requirements
through clear and practical legal
advice, clear operational
procedures, related control
mechanisms, and clear and safe
ways to report potential
misconduct. We interact closely
with the ACM in relation to
compliance, incidents and
potentially different views on
the interpretation of the law.

Investor
community

We organize key corporate events
such as the Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders, capital
markets days, and meetings with
investors during roadshows and
conferences, analysts and credit
rating agencies. We also provide
relevant company information
through timely press releases and
regular publications such as our
quarterly results and Integrated
Annual Report.

B
 est-in-class networks and
benefits of integrated services.
S olid operational performance
with a combination of
converged customer base
growth and a strong focus on
value creation supporting
financial results.
F ree cash flow growth potential
leading to increased operational
and financial flexibility, and
attractive shareholder returns.

W
 e increased the fixed-mobile
customer base leading to
stronger customer loyalty and
low churn levels.
W
 e provided 76% of households
with access to at least 100
Mbps.
W
 e realized a stable adjusted
EBITDA and growing free cash
flow in 2017 compared to full
year 2016.
W
 e grew our regular dividend
per share, distributed the
dividend received on our
Telefónica Deutschland stake to
KPN shareholders and we
completed a share buyback
program of € 200m.

The investor community –
financial markets in general, our
shareholders, debt investors and
research analysts – expects us to
be extensive and transparent. We
should be clear in our strategy,
objectives and outlook, and
transparent about executive
remuneration. Their main interest
is our commitment to creating
value. They want timely and
accurate updates and ample
opportunity to seek clarification
and ask questions

153

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Appendices
Stakeholder
group

What they expect

How we engage
(incl. frequency)

Suppliers

Our suppliers expect to maintain
a long-term commitment and
cooperation with us. Furthermore,
they expect simple contracts, fair
prices and acceptable payment
terms. Together we should look
for opportunities regarding
sustainable cost reduction.

KPN has a central Corporate
Procurement Organization (CPO)
that is responsible for contracting
deals with suppliers. We make
sure the principles of our
suppliers’ CSR policies are in line
with our own.
We are constantly in touch with
our suppliers and invite them to
our annual Supplier Day. We
increasingly partner with them on
sustainable solutions. We are also
a member of the Joint Audit
Cooperation (JAC), an association
of 13 telecom operators aiming to
verify, assess and develop the
(CSR) implementation across the
manufacturing centers of
important multinational suppliers.

K
 PN has the ambition of
becoming close to 100% circular
in 2025. To succeed we need
cooperation of suppliers in
order to improve efficiency,
lower costs and make
equipment and products more
environmentally friendly.

T
 ogether with our suppliers we
implemented sustainable
solutions which resulted in cost
reduction, reduction in energy
and material use.
W
 e aim for all suppliers we do
business with to comply with
the KPN Supplier Code of
Conduct or have their own
equivalent code. Our Code of
Conduct helps to ensure that all
of our suppliers are committed
to conducting its business in an
ethical, legal environmentally,
respecting human rights and
socially responsible manner as
well as JAC standards.
W
 e continue to raise awareness
of sustainability among our
buyers and suppliers. In order to
achieve 100% close to circular
products we need support of all
suppliers. On 9 October 2017,
KPN and 7 suppliers have
signed a manifesto. This
manifesto expresses the
commitments of KPN and
suppliers to explore the value
and expected impact on the
environment of specific projects
and initiatives in support of
KPN’s circular business model
by focusing on four areas: using
less virgin raw material,
extending product lifetime,
reusing and recycling all
products and improving energy
efficiency as much as possible.

Business
customers

Our customers in enterprising the
Netherlands rapidly face the
opportunities and threats of the
digital transformation. Customer
needs are changing fast. Business
customers expect effortless ICT
solutions that are always
connected on any device. Our
customers expect simplicity in
managing their ICT services, a
strong vision on IT and cloud
developments. Customers expect
us to guide them so they benefit
from all the ICT developments.

Of course we talk with our
business customers via our
Business Partners, account
managers, in our XL stores and
our contact centers. New this year
is that we engage through our
in-house KPN Experience Lab in
which we test the needs and
experience of the customers daily.
We also engage customer panels,
quarterly market research, round
table discussions, workshops
connecting customers’ strategies
with KPN’s and social media
through our B2B platform The
Digital Dutch. We closely monitor
our (business) customers’
satisfaction and loyalty through
NPS. We organized the yearly
RijksmuseumTop for about 350
business associates.
We have improved our customer
service. Last year, more than 500
business customers joined us
through MijnKPN Grootzakelijk,
the portal for large-scale
customers, which enables them to
easily do business online with KPN.

S trong portfolio
Improve customer experience,
measured by NPS
R
 e-positioning as an ICT service
provider
E
 xcellent delivery & customer
Service
P
 rivacy and security in our
networks

W
 ith the improved KPN ÉÉN, we
offer our business customer a
complete and flexible ICT
portfolio.
W
 e offered Cloud, workspace,
Internet of Things and security
services to gradually establish
our leading position as an ICT
player.
O
 ur sales organization has
turned further into a more IT
centric approach because IT
becomes more leading in the
ICT solutions of our customers.
W
 e further developed vertical
partnerships to create business
solutions for customers, for
example with local government,
healthcare institutions and
educational organizations.

154

Main topics in 2017

Our response

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Appendices
 Scope, reporting process and
materiality determination

Stakeholder
group

What they expect

How we engage
(incl. frequency)

Retail
customers

Our retail customers expect
high-quality products and service
for the right price. This includes
failure-free networks, clear
propositions and processes, a
quick and proper response to
questions and complaints and
good communication. They
want sincere and proactive advice
about the best possible
subscriptions that meet their
needs. Besides that, they want
their loyalty to be acknowledged
and appreciated.

Of course, we constantly
communicate with our retail
customers in our stores, via our
call centers and our engineers
and online in forums and live
chats. Besides that, we monitor
what is said about KPN on social
media, both positive and negative
and we also use tools, such as the
monthly NPS and ReptrakTM, to
monitor our reputation.

B
 eing always connected
(connected anytime, anywhere)
Improved online customer
service experience
P
 roviding a high-quality TV
offer
N
 ew financing and roaming
regulations for mobile plans

W
 e proactively offer free
engineer service to customers
experiencing sub-optimal WiFi
performance
W
 e started offering free Mobile
data to 4P customers with a
temporary in-home disturbance,
so they quickly regain internet
connectivity through our mobile
network.
W
 e improved broadband
connectivity for customers in
rural areas via combining fixed
network and 4G network
connectivity

Society

Society expects us to make a
positive mark on Dutch society.
They expect us to be socially and
environmentally responsible and
to be a good corporate citizen.
They want products and services
that help to solve social and
environmental issues.
Furthermore, they expect us to
be a frontrunner in sustainability
and other societal issues by
creating sustainable partnerships.
KPN has the potential to lead
debates. On the privacy field,
mobile data is extremely
powerful. How to balance
between ‘private’ and ‘public’ is
the next big question.

We are active in working groups
initiated by NGOs and participate
in or liaise with organizations
such as the European
Telecommunications Network
Operators’ Association (ETNO),
International Telecom Union
(ITU), the United Nations Global
Compact Foundation, the Dutch
Association of Investors for
Sustainable Development
(VBDO) and the ICT Coalition. In
2017, we joined Circle Economy.
Furthermore, we organize an
annual dialogue with
stakeholders to discuss our
contribution to society and the
desired next steps. We organize
an Advisory Board meeting four
times a year, which we renewed in
2017.

W
 hen involved in societal
discussions like smartphone use
in traffic or protecting children
online, choose subjects where
you have an actual impact on
change. Educate your
stakeholders and open up a
debate.
S DGs should be integrated in
your strategy, because they will
be on the worldwide agenda for
the next 13 years.
T
 ry to make your impact more
clear, both positive and negative
and make sure it is independent
research.
D
 uring a stakeholder dialogue
on tax, we discussed what KPN
can do to remain transparent
and clear in regards to the
chosen tax policy. Updating
stakeholders on a regular
basis was a key aspect in this
discussion.

W
 e launched a campaign on our
green character, we joined in a
government campaign on the
use of smartphones in traffic
and work on the development of
a bicycle lock for smartphones.
Together with VBDO, we
conducted a webcast for
investors and analysts in order
to discuss our sustainable
strategy.
W
 e focused on fewer SDGs
which we integrated in our
strategy.
W
 e decided to do a new impact
study that will be more closely
related to our strategy and
to customer focus. We chose
to change to a new method and
partner.

How we engage with policymakers
KPN actively engages with policymakers in politics and
government and sponsors activities which help to debate in
the public arena the consequences of digitalization and develop
actions to cope with them. For KPN, as a predominantly Dutch
operation, policy is primarily shaped in Brussels and in The
Hague. The focus of our engagement is there. To increase
relevance with policymakers, the aim is to cooperate as much
as possible with other likeminded companies and therefore
KPN participates in trade organizations which are active at the
European level and in the Netherlands and contributes to
these organizations. These contributions accounts for the
majority of the disclosed amounts. The sums apportioned to
Brussels are part of the sums disclosed in the Transparency
Register, to which KPN has subscribed from the start. The
Transparency Register also encompasses an estimation of the
cost of staff. KPN also participates in global organisations like
GSMA, which aim to develop the mobile industry worldwide,
and which also engage with policymakers in Europe and

Main topics in 2017

Our response

elsewhere. Finally, KPN contributes to ITU, which is a
standardisation body and a United Nations Agency, but which
is not a trade organisation and therefore is not included in the
sums presented.
KPN refrains from any sponsorship of political parties, political
individuals or government institutions. Management upholds
strict standards on ethical and transparent behaviour.
Employees who are politically active have to ask for permission
if they have paid political functions, e.g. as member of
municipal of regional councils. In the past years, KPN has
always had the policy to approach policy makers directly.
External public affairs agencies are not paid to speak on behalf
of KPN.
KPN presents the amount of money spent on public affairs in
three categories. KPN does not disaggregate these figures
further as KPN is not at liberty to divulge the contributions to
individual organizations.

155

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Appendices
Type of trade organization

Geographic scope

Spend in 2017 in EURO Focus of membership
(non-exhaustive)

Trade bodies representing interests of
mobile operators worldwide

Global

30,000 Develop the mobile industry worldwide with focus on
level playing field and predictability of the law. Create
common standards and encourage sustainable
innovation.

Trade body representing Europe’s
telecommunications network operators

European Union

126,912 Create a level playing field within the EU based on an
unambiguous and predictable legal situation. Focus
on the European Electronic Communications Code,
the General Data Protection Regulation, ePrivacy, and
the Privacy Shield.

Confederation of Netherlands Industry and
Employers

Netherlands and the
European Union

411,972 Monitor and influence nationwide issues that are of
importance across sectors. Examples include creating
a prosperous investment climate, fiscal climate, social
agenda and a digital agenda.

Trade association for IT, telecom, internet
and companies

Netherlands

32,500 Monitor, influence and increase awareness of (issues
in) the digital economy, e.g. on continuity and security
and privacy.

Trade association in the technology industry

Netherlands

5,000 Monitor and influence national policies in particular
for the manufacturing industries, such as health care,
metallurgy, microconductor industry, and the digital
industry.

Trade association for the positioning of the
Netherlands defense- and safety-related
industry

Netherlands

47,434 Monitor and influence national policies specifically in
the field of national security.

Dilemmas
Because KPN deals with many stakeholders, we face dilemmas
and we are forced to make choices. In this section, we outline
two dilemmas that we faced in the past year.
Fiber roll-out
In 2017, our Hybrid Access Strategy attracted attention from
the media. Having access to best-in-class networks for our
customers is one of our spearheads. The costs to achieve this
ambition are however significant, resulting in a tactical dilemma
of weighing the cost of delivering this ambition against the
social benefits. The downside of the fiber roll-out is that it is
time-consuming and we are forced to prioritize some areas
over others. Local regulations sometimes further slowdown the
implementation processes. On the other hand the need for fast
internet appears to differ. We see that certain customer groups
are not yet interested in our fiber products. Therefore, a phased
roll-out as part of our Hybrid Access Strategy seems to be the
most straightforward solution from both the financial and
social point of view. By investing in fiber (FttH) and upgrading
our fixed network (FttC) at the same time we ensure that our
infrastructure remains best-in-class. By doing so we will also be
able to reach a higher coverage with faster internet in the
shorter term. In the upcoming years, we expect that this
dilemma between investing in FttH and/or FttC will remain
relevant and we are keen to continue the dialogue with our
stakeholders. We will do our best to achieve the best balance
between financial impacts and social benefits.

156

Engaging with suppliers in high-risk categories on
systemic issues
Through our audits at high risk suppliers we gain visibility and
understanding of non-conformities with our Supplier Code of
Conduct. Depending on the outcome of these audits, we
establish corrective action plans in collaboration with the
supplier in question. Even though we realized a higher
percentage of improvements on corrective action plans, we are
still experiencing some delays in closing all issues. These
delays are often linked to systemic issues, which are difficult to
be solved by individual suppliers on their own. An example of
such an issue is keeping working hours within the norm set by
legislation, where the limit corresponds poorly with the culture
and wishes of the employees.
Although such practices are clearly against our way of working,
we believe that simply terminating relationships with these
suppliers is not an adequate way forward. Elimination of such
practices requires commitments from various stakeholders,
including national / local governments, private sector and
individuals. KPN is therefore a strong contributor to the JAC
program, which has grown today to 13 telecom operators, sharing
resources and best practices to develop long-term solutions in
the different layers or tiers of the ICT supply chain globally.

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Appendices
Glossary

Appendices

Appendix 4: Glossary
This glossary lists the key terms and concepts included in the
Integrated Annual Report.
2G
Second generation mobile system, which is based on the GSM
universal standard.
3G
Third generation mobile system, which is based on the UMTS
universal standard.
4G
Fourth generation mobile system, a standard for wireless
communication delivering high-speed data for mobile phones
and data terminals.

A
ACM (Authority for Consumers and Markets)
The ACM acts as a regulator in the Netherlands and is
responsible for monitoring compliance with anti-trust rules.
ADR
American depository receipt.
Adjusted revenues and adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted revenues and adjusted EBITDA are derived from
revenues (including other income) and EBITDA, respectively,
and are adjusted for the impact of restructuring costs and
incidentals. Incidentals are non-recurring transactions which
are not directly related to day-to-day operational activities at
or over EUR 5m unless significant for the specific reportable
segment.
ARPU (average revenue per user)
ARPU is the sum of connection fees, monthly fixed subscription
revenues, traffic revenues and gross service provider revenues
less related discounts during a one-month period, divided by
the average number of customers during that month. Gross
service provider revenues represent revenues generated by
third-party providers. KPN accounts for the net part as gross
service provider revenues.
Average 4G download speed
The average download speed is based on the results of a
speedtest that customers initiate on 4G with their smartphone.
Robot measurements and customers that use other networks
than KPN’s are excluded from the results.

B
BCF (Business Control Framework)
The BCF contains all corporate policies and guidelines that are
mandatory for KPN segments and entities. It forms the
cornerstone of the governance of the KPN Group.
Bit
A binary digit (bit) is the smallest unit of information. Internet
speeds in this report are expressed in Megabits per second
(Mbps).
Broadband
Broadband refers to telecommunication that provides multiple
channels of data over a single communications medium,
typically using some form of frequency or wave division
multiplexing.

C
Capital expenditures (Capex)
Investments in property, plant and equipment and software.
CDP
The CDP (formerly, the Carbon Disclosure Project) is a joint
initiative of investors worldwide that questions and
benchmarks listed companies on their approach to climate
change.
Churn (calculated on an annual basis)
The number of customers no longer connected to a operator’s
network divided by the operator’s customer base.
Circular economy
The circular economy is a generic term for an industrial
economy that is producing no waste and pollution and in which
material flows are of two types biological nutrients, designed to
re-enter the biosphere safely, and technical nutrients, which are
designed to circulate at high quality in the production system
without entering the biosphere.
CISO (Chief Information Security Office)
CISO is responsible within KPN for the security of the IT and TI
architecture. Part of this office are the CISO REDteam, KPN’s
ethical hacking team and the CERT (Computer Emergency
Response Team) that acts in case of a (potential) cyber-attack.
CISO labs
CISO labs develop new secure and cryptographic products.
Together with other companies and universities we have
started research projects in regards to, amongst others,
post-quantum cryptography.
157

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Appendices
Climate-neutral
For KPN, climate neutral means operating with zero net CO₂
emissions.
Cloud services
Cloud services are standardized IT capability (services,
software or infrastructure) delivered via internet technologies
in a pay-per-use, self-service way.
CO₂
Carbon dioxide is a gas that is created when fossil fuels such as
oil and coal are burned. Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas.
Conflict minerals
Conflict minerals are minerals mined under conditions of armed
conflicts and human rights issues. These minerals are used in a
variety of products, including consumer electronic devices such
as mobile phones.
CSR (corporate social responsibility)
CSR, to KPN, is the integrated vision of entrepreneurship, in
which the company takes responsibility and creates value in
economic (profit), ecological (planet) and social (people) terms.
We incorporate CSR into our business and by doing so, take our
social responsibility and contribute to societal challenges.
Customer base
Customer base is the total number of subscribers.

D
DEFRA
UK Department for Environment Food & Rural Affairs. DEFRA
published conversion factors to calculate greenhouse gas
emissions.
DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index)
The DJSIx is a collection of indices that track the performance
of companies that are frontrunners in terms of CSR. The DJSI is
based on an analysis of corporate economic, environmental
and social performance. There are several sub-indices based
on geographical parameters.
DSL (digital subscriber line)
DSL is a technology for bringing high bandwidth information to
homes and small businesses over copper PSTN lines. The
widely used term xDSL refers to different variations of DSL,
such as ADSL, HDSL, VDSL and SDSL.

158

E
EBITDA
Operating result before depreciation and impairments of
PPE and amortization and impairments of intangible assets.
EEIO (Environmentally extended input output data)
EEIO models estimate energy use and/or GHG emissions
resulting from the production and upstream supply chain
activities of different sectors and products. The resulting EEIO
emissions factors can be used to estimate cradle-to-gate GHG
emissions for a given industry or product category. EEIO
models are derived by allocating national GHG emissions to
groups of finished products based on economic flows between
industry sectors.

F
FTE (full-time equivalent)
The equivalent of the number of employees with a full-time
contract.
FttC (Fiber-to-the-Curb)
FttC is defined as an access network architecture in which
optical fiber extents to street cabinets ‘on the curb’.
The final part of the connection to the home consists of copper
FttH (Fiber-to-the-Home)
FttH is defined as an access network architecture in which the
final part of the connection to the home also consists of optical
fiber.
FttO (Fiber-to-the-Office)
FttO is fiber connection for business customers to the offices.

G
GHG (Greenhouse Gas) Protocol
The GHG Initiative is a multi-stakeholder partnership of
business, non-governmental organizations (NGOs),
governments and others that develop internationally accepted
GHG accounting and reporting standards for organizations.
Global Goals
See Sustainable Development Goals
Green electricity
Green electricity is electricity from renewable sources. KPN
only uses wind energy and electricity from biomass that does
not compete with food production.

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Greenprint
Greenprint is a description that helps us to work towards the
same goal; achieving the desired customer experience
and in the end become the best service provider. Based on the
why, who, what and how of our existence.
GRI (Global Reporting Initiative)
The Global Reporting Initiative is an organization that
publishes international standards for CSR reporting.

H
Hybrid cloud
Hybrid cloud is a cloud computing environment which uses a
mix of on-premises, private cloud and third-party, public cloud
services with orchestration between the two platforms. By
allowing workloads to move between private and public
clouds as computing needs and costs change, hybrid cloud
gives businesses greater flexibility and more data deployment
options.

I
ICT
Information and communication technology.
Industry-adjusted ranking
This ranking takes into account the impact of its industry’s
reputation on a company’s score Internet of Things (IoT).
Internet of Things
The Internet of Things connects objects such as garbage
bins or cars via a chip with the internet. This offers a lot of
opportunities, such as Smart City solutions.
IPTV
IPTV is a system through which television services are
delivered using the internet protocol suite over a packetswitched network such as the internet. iTV is KPN’s IPTV
offering in the Netherlands.
ISO (International Organization for Standardization)
This organization is responsible for international management
standards such as ISO 14001, ISO 140064-1, ISO 27001 and ISO
22301 (mentioned in this report).
iTV
iTV stands for interactive TV. With iTV, the customer can easily
choose when, where and what programs to watch.

Appendices
Glossary

J
JAC (Joint Audit Cooperation)
The JAC is a cooperation of 13 European telecommunication
operators (including KPN) focusing on the social, ethical,
and environmental conditions across their supply chains.

K
KPN Classmate
Through the KlasseContact project of the KPN Mooiste
Contact Fonds, chronically ill children can use an ICT-set
(a KPN Classmate) to take a virtual seat in the classroom.
KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds
This KPN foundation supports societal initiatives aimed
at stimulating social contact, by combining people and
technological resources to the best advantage.

L
LoRa (Long range)
Network architecture to connect millions of low-energy and
low-data devices to the internet in a cost-effective way. This
opens up countless application possibilities for KPN’s Internet
of Things (IoT).
LTE (Long-term evolution)
LTE, commonly marketed as 4G LTE, is a standard for wireless
communication of high-speed data for mobile phones and data
terminals.

M
Market share
Market share is the percentage or proportion of the total
available market that is being serviced by KPN. These figures
are based on externally available market data, which may not be
completely accurate, and may partially be based on estimates.
Mbps (Megabits per second)
Mbps is a unit of data transfer rate equal to one million bits
per second. The bandwidths of broadband networks are often
indicated in Mbps.
MHz (Megahertz)
MHz is one million hertz (a unit of frequency).
Multi play
Propositions combining more than one product and/or type of
service is considered a multi play proposition. Triple-play and
quad-play propositions are types of multi play propositions.

159

Contents

KPN at a glance

Who we are and what we do

The long-term value we create

Appendices
Multi play seats
The number of multi play seats is based on KPN brand fixed or
mobile connections. IT services are not included.
MVNO (Mobile virtual network operator)
A mobile operator that does not have its own spectrum or
its own network infrastructure. Instead, MVNOs have business
arrangements with ‘traditional’ mobile operators to buy
minutes of use to sell to their own customers.

N
NPS (Net Promoter Score)
NPS is a tool for measuring customer loyalty, based on whether
customers would recommend KPN to someone else.
NWLW (New Way of Living and Working)
The NWLW means being able to work without the constraints
of time and place with the use of modern technology.
Normalized EBITDA
Normalized EBITDA is defined as a 12-month rolling total
EBITDA excluding restructuring costs, incidentals and major
changes in the composition of the Group (acquisitions and
disposals).

O
OTT
In broadcasting, over-the-top content (OTT) refers to the
delivery of audio, video, and other media over the internet for
which no subscription to a traditional cable or satellite operator
is required. A famous example is WhatsApp, which is replacing
text messaging.

P
PUE (power usage effectiveness)
An international standard for the calculation of energy
efficiency of data centers, which compares the total data center
electricity consumption with the electricity consumption of
equipment used for customer purposes. In the calculation, data
centers with an occupation rate less than 25% are not taken
into account.

R
RepTrak
RepTrak, developed by the Reputation Institute, is a method to
calculate a reputation score of companies. KPN’s reputation is
based on three out of twelve RepTrak attributes that are kept
confidential and are stable over the years.

160

RGU (Revenue generating unit)
RGU is the total of all subscribers receiving standard
broadband internet or telephony services over KPN’s network
at a given date. Thus, one subscriber who receives a bundle of
KPN’s services (telephony, internet and TV) would be counted
as three RGUs.
Roaming
Transfer of mobile traffic from one network to another, referring
to the exchange of international mobile traffic.

S
Scope 1
Direct greenhouse gas emissions occurring from sources that
are owned or controlled by an organization.
Scope 2
Indirect greenhouse gas emissions from the generation of purchased
electricity, heating or cooling consumed by an organization.
Scope 3
Other direct greenhouse gas emissions as a consequence of
the activities of the company, but occurring from sources not
owned or controlled by an organization.
Service revenues
Service revenues are defined as the aggregate of connection
fees, monthly subscription fees and traffic fees. The term
service revenues refers to wireless service revenues.
SIM card (Subscriber identity module card)
A chip card inserted into a mobile phone, which contains
information such as telephone numbers and memory for
storing a directory.
#SMARTer2030
Back in 2008, GeSI launched the first report of the SMART
series, the SMART2020, followed by SMARTer2020 in 2012.
In 2015, the #SMARTer2030 report has been launched with the
aim to extend our horizon to 2030 and to look at ICT-enabled
sustainability from a holistic point of view. The translation of
the #SMARTer2030 research into opportunities for KPN and
the Netherlands followed in 2016.
SME
SME refers to Small and Medium Enterprises.
SOC (Security Operations Center)
The SOC monitors the high-risk systems of KPN in order to
quickly act in case of security risks or incidents.
SoHo
SoHo refers to Small Office / Home Office companies.

How we safeguard long-term value

Financial report

Stakeholder
Stakeholders are the people or organizations with an interest in
the company, such as customers, employees, shareholders,
suppliers, governments and media.
Subscriber
A subscriber is defined as an end-user with a connection to the
mobile or fixed networks and/or service platforms of KPN. The
subscriber is included in the subscriber base if there is a direct
or indirect (business, wholesale) billing relationship, either
prepaid or postpaid, with the following exceptions:
if the connection is owned through wholesale by full MVNOs
or fixed line access parties; or
if the connection has been inactive for a specific time period
(prepaid or postpaid without contract).
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
On 25 September, 2015, countries within the United Nations
adopted 17 goals to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure
prosperity for all as part of a new sustainable development
agenda. Each goal has specific targets to be achieved in 2030.
Also known as Global Goals.
SWOT Analysis
Strategic planning tool to find strengths, weaknesses,
opportunities and threats.

T
Tier standards (I to IV)
Telecommunications Infrastructure Standard for data centers.
Tier levels describe the availability of data at a location.
The higher the tier, the greater the availability. Tier IV is the
highest level and entails independent dual-powered cooling
and expected data availability of 99.995% or higher.
Transparency Benchmark
The Transparency Benchmark is a yearly benchmark which
investigates the content and quality of the sustainability
reports of Dutch enterprises.

Appendices
Glossary

U
Usage of total data traffic
The data demand peak for main traffic streams is based on
continuous five minute timeframe measurements. These
streams consist of KPN iTV, Netflix, Google and other internet
traffic.

V
VBDO (Vereniging van Beleggers voor Duurzame
Ontwikkeling)
The Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable
Development (VBDO) works to create a sustainable capital
market, a market that considers not only financial criteria but
also non-financial, social and environmental criteria. VBDO’s
vision is to increase sustainability awareness among companies
and investors.
Virgin materials
Materials sourced directly from nature in their raw form, such
as wood or metal ores. Manufacturing products using virgin
materials uses much more energy and depletes more natural
resources, as opposed to producing goods using recycled
materials.
VoLTE (Voice over LTE)
VoLTE allows the voice service to be delivered as data flows
within the LTE data bearer.

W
Weighted downtime reduction
The weighted downtime concerns the average monthly time
period in which a combination of KPN platforms and systems is
inaccessible to clients and customers.

Transparency International Netherlands
Transparency International Netherlands is the Dutch part
of Transparency International (TI), a non-governmental
organization which combats corruption worldwide.
Triple play
Term used to describe the provision of telephony, internet and
television services to a household by a single provider.
TSR (Total shareholder return)
A measure of the performance of different companies’ stocks
and shares over time. TSR is calculated by the growth in capital
from purchasing a share in the company assuming that the
dividends are reinvested each time they are paid. This growth
is expressed as a percentage as the compound annual growth
rate.
161

162

Colophon
For additional information
KPN Investor Relations
Tel: +31 (0) 704460986
ir.kpn.com
ir@kpn.com
Published by
Royal KPN N.V.
P.O. Box 30000
2500 GA The Hague
The Netherlands
Chamber of Commerce
registration number 02045200
Content and organization
Royal KPN N.V.
RRED Communications
www.rred.nl
Stampa Communications
www.stampacommunications.com
Sustainalize
www.sustainalize.nl
Concept and design
De Designpolitie
www.designpolitie.nl
Online
We would like to thank everyone who participated in the
videos, that can be viewed on our Integrated Annual Report
website: www.kpn.com/annualreport

PAPER & BOARD
MADE OF

AGRI-WASTE
WWW.PAPERWISE.EU

The inside pages of this publication have been printed on
PaperWise, a new generation of paper and board with a very
low environmental impact. The cover has been printed on
wood-free white offset paper (FSC).

Forward-looking statements and management estimates
Certain of the statements we have made in this Integrated Annual Report are ‘forward-looking statements’. These
statements are based on our beliefs and assumptions and on
information currently available to us. They include information
concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position,
potential growth opportunities, potential operating performance or expense improvements and the effects of future
legislation or regulation.
Forward-looking statements include all statements that
are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of
forward-looking terminology such as the words ‘believe’,
‘expect’, ‘plan’, ‘intend’, ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘predict’, ‘potential’,
‘continue’, ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘could’, ‘shall’, or the negative of
these terms or similar expressions.
Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and
assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those
expressed in these forward-looking statements. No undue
reliance should be put on any forward-looking statements.
Unless required by applicable law or applicable rules of the
stock exchange on which our securities are listed, we have neither the intention nor an obligation to update forward-looking
statements after distribution of this Integrated Annual Report.
All market share information in this financial report is based on
management estimates based on externally available information, unless indicated otherwise.
The terms ‘we’, ‘our’ and ‘us’ are used to describe the company;
where they are used in the chapter Segment performance,
they refer to the business concerned.
We always aim to further improve our CSR activities and
reporting. Therefore, we highly appreciate your feedback,
questions and comments on our Integrated Annual Report
and CSR activities. Please contact mvo@kpn.com.

Royal KPN N.V.
Maanplein 55
2516 CK The Hague
The Netherlands
P.O. Box 30000
2500 GA The Hague
The Netherlands
www.kpn.com

