Royal Ten Cate

Annual review 2017

PROTECTING PEOPLE

Contents
Profile........................................................................................................................................ 3
Key figures 2017 ..................................................................................................................... 4
Report of the Executive Board .............................................................................................. 5
TenCate Protective Fabrics ............................................................................................. 11
TenCate Advanced Composites ..................................................................................... 13
TenCate Advanced Armor ............................................................................................... 15
TenCate Geosynthetics ................................................................................................... 17
TenCate Grass .................................................................................................................. 18
Report of the Supervisory Board ........................................................................................ 20
Executive Board and Senior Management ....................................................................... 22
Supervisory Board ................................................................................................................ 22

2

Profile
Royal TenCate, headquartered in Almelo, the Netherlands, has 3,796 employees and operates through
five global TenCate business groups:






TenCate Protective Fabrics
TenCate Advanced Composites
TenCate Advanced Armor
TenCate Geosynthetics
TenCate Grass

Each of the business groups serves specific and diverse (niche) markets and geographies with
individual demands, performance specifications and market dynamics. The business groups are active
as producers and suppliers of materials and systems with the principal aim of protecting people and the
environment and providing sustainable solutions by developing materials with specified characteristics.
The predominant technologies consist of fiber / textile technology and chemical technology.
The business groups have production locations predominantly in the United States of America and
Europe and are also located in Asia (China, Malaysia) and Australia.

Markets

Group company
TenCate Protective Fabrics*

Markets
Industrial companies, such as Oil &
Gas Industry, Chemical industry,
Utilities.
First response market
Military market
Aerospace, space market
Automotive (high-end sports
segment)
Industrial and leisure markets
Consumer electronics market

Products
Protective fabrics for the workwear
and safety wear market.

Customers
Garment manufacturers
Industrial laundries
Garment rental companies

Engineered thermoset and
thermoplastic composite materials,
mainly based on carbon fiber, glass
and (para)aramid fibers

TenCate Advanced Armor

Law enforcement market
Defense market
Security market

TenCate Geosynthetics

Infrastructure & construction
Water & environment
Agriculture

Body armor plates, shields
Vehicle armor kits
Aerospace armor kits
Armored parts
Active protection systems
Reinforced geotextiles (wovens and
non-wovens) and grids
TenCate Geotube® system

Aircraft manufacturers, producers of
launch vehicles and satellites.
Automobile producers, parts
manufacturers. F1 suppliers.
Sports and leisure companies
Other industrial OEMs
OEMs in the defense industry
Armor companies (system
suppliers)
Body armor vest manufacturers

TenCate Grass

Sports and leisure market
Landscaping market

*) including TenCate Outdoor
Fabrics

Leisure markets, home decoration
and outdoor living

TenCate Advanced Composites

Synthetic turf yarns and backing
materials
Synthetic turf systems
Sub-base materials
Outdoor fabrics for camping and
sun awnings

Construction and road building
companies
Engineering companies
Wholesale companies
Carpet manufacturers
Installers and contractors
FIFA and other sport institutions
Tent manufacturers
Sun awning system suppliers

3

Key figures 2017
Key figures
For the financial year ending on 31 December, in millions of euros

2016

2017

Profit and loss account
Revenues
EBITDA *

1,178.3

1,222.2

126.7

144.2

10.8%

11.8%

113.9

102.4

Cash flow from operating activities

106.4

105.3

Cash flow from investing activities

-21.3

-89.1

85.1

16.2

3,550

3,796

779

807

2016
326.8
178.9
68.4
313.1
289.4
1.7
1,178.3

2017
280.8
193.0
81.4
343.6
322.4
1.0
1,222.2

EBITDA margin *
Debt
Net debt
Consolidated Cashflow:

Cash flow from operating and investing activities
FTE
FTE excluding temporary staff at year-end
of which in the Netherlands

Business group revenues:
Revenue by Business Group
Protective Fabrics **
Composites
Armor
Geosynthetics
Grass
Other
Total

*EBITDA in this report means EBITDA before exceptional items
**Including TenCate Outdoor Fabrics

4

Report of the Executive
Board
Key developments during 2017
The continued favorable market momentum
supported the positive financial developments
of the various business groups. The increased
level of investments in fixed assets enhanced
the manufacturing footprint and efficiency. This
enables the business groups to benefit from the
restored growth opportunities resulting from
global economic recovery.
In 2016 profit enhancement plans were scoped
and initiated for each business group. Through
2017 programs were fully deployed, leading to
a structural improvement of the organization in
terms of financial management and control,
organizational efficiency and enhancement of
the human capital. A strong focus on quality
performance and market orientation through a
global and coordinated customer approach is
providing business groups with a strengthened
value proposition for end markets.
As of 1 January 2018 the Dutch pension
scheme has been transferred to the Dutch
textile industry sector pension fund (MITT). In
connection with this TenCate made a one-time
cash settlement for matters such as agreed
future recovery premiums amounting to € 10
million. In addition, TenCate will pay all
transfer-related costs up to an amount of € 3
million.

Consolidated results and cash flow
Revenues increased to € 1,222 million (2016:
€ 1,178 million; organic growth 0%). A strong
revenue performance was recorded by
TenCate Advanced Composites and TenCate
Geosynthetics. Ten Cate Grass executed three
acquisitions in order to strengthen its
downstream activities.
The gross margin improvement of 1.7% to
24.2% indicates a structural improvement in the
quality of revenue and earnings. EBITDA
increased to € 144.2 million (2016: € 126.7
million). TenCate Advanced Armor showed a
continued recovery of its results, with a good
performance in Europe. Other main growth
contributions came from TenCate Advanced
Composites and TenCate Geosynthetics.
The net cash flow from operating and investing
activities amounting to € 16.2 million (2016:
€ 85.1 million) was a function of strong EBITDA
growth in combination with increased efficiency

and a focus on working capital management,
offset by increased capital expenditures, the
one-time pension contribution and acquisitions.
Capital expenditures of € 43.5 million were
46% above the previous year (2016: € 29.8
million).

Exceptional items
Exceptional items totaling € 23 million were
(among other items) mainly the result of
consulting costs, exceptional projects, Dutch
pensions settlement (net impact) and
organizational, legal and tax restructurings.

Finance
Two refinancing operations of TenCate’s parent
company Tennessee Acquisition B.V. occurred
during 2017, resulting in a decrease in
financings costs. The refinancing operation by
TenCate’s parent company Tennessee
Acquisition B.V. during the fourth quarter of
2017 resulted in an increase in the eurodenominated Term Loan of € 125 million. At
year end the net debt / EBITDA ratio amounted
to 4.0 for Tennessee Acquisition.
TenCate’s parent company Tennessee
Acquisition B.V. provided intercompany loans
to TenCate of € 18.3 million (2016: € 21.2
million) and US$ 124.9 million (2016:
US$ 187.0 million) at year end. Furthermore,
TenCate has direct access to Tennessee
Acquisition’s € 75 million Revolving Credit
Facility under the Senior Facilities Agreement.
TenCate’s net debt at the end of the year
amounted to € 102.4 million (2016: € 113.9
million).

Organization and governance
During 2017 a decentralized structure was
further developed whereby the business groups
operate under global group management with
business group holding companies established
under Dutch law. TenCate is in the process of
transferring previously centralized holding
functions, such as corporate control &
reporting, tax, credit management and treasury,
to the business groups. The TenCate group
holding will gradually be downsized and
perform a more coordinating role. Critical
positions in the business groups have been
strengthened and much emphasis has been
placed on enhancement of the management
capabilities and the quality of the workforce.
This new structure creates a higher degree of
entrepreneurship and market focus in the
various businesses and the business groups

will be better equipped to respond effectively to
market trends and customer demands.

Other information
At the beginning of 2017 TenCate started the
transition from a centralized IT operating model
to a decentralized model. This program is
expected to be completed by the end of 2018,
at which time IT responsibilities will be handed
over to the individual business groups. Much
emphasis is placed during the transition
process on stability, security and integrity of the
IT systems at a decentralized level.
Investments are and will be made in further
strengthening the resilience and security of the
IT systems. TenCate Grass and TenCate
Protective Fabrics have implemented new
ERP-systems during 2017, enhancing
functionality of the system with mitigated
operational risk.
With a decentralized business approach all
TenCate groups have strengthened their sales
and marketing organizations. In this respect the
corporate website is no longer the dominant
portal for commercial purposes and the groups
have created their own e-commerce
environment with a strengthened individual
business profile and corporate identity and
appropriate communication tools.

Outlook

Capital expenditures are expected to increase
in 2018 compared to 2017 as a result of
modernization of the production (new /
innovative equipment), quality improvement
projects and efficiency enhancement.
Research and development cost will be at a
similar level as in previous years.
All TenCate groups have put an increased
emphasis on improving the added value for
customers in order to create a meaningful
contribution to satisfy customer needs. This will
contribute to an increased quality of earnings.
In addition, as a result on the continuous
attention for efficiency improvements, working
capital management and profit enhancement
profitability of the TenCate business groups is
expected to increase further during 2018.
The use of advanced composite materials in
aerospace and space applications has
increased significantly in recent years. As a
result, the advanced composites market is
becoming more mature and entering a new
phase. For customers of the TenCate
Advanced Composites group, economies of
scale, the capability to invest in production and
R&D are key factors in connection with
selecting strategic suppliers. This will have an
effect on the entire value chain and vertical
integration is becoming increasingly important.

All TenCate business groups have been
enhanced in terms of organization,
manufacturing performance, efficiency and
market focus. This will support future
performance. TenCate business groups expect
to benefit further from favorable underlying
macro-economic trends as well as increased
infrastructure and defense-related spending.
The emphasis on enhanced personal safety,
environmental care and other mega-trends
such as global warming will have a positive
effect on demand for engineered materials. The
demand for lightweight composite materials in
the aerospace industry in combination with
lower handling and processing costs is at a
turning point. TenCate operates at the forefront
of this development. A broader acceptance and
adoption of these materials will create a
positive momentum for further growth.

In order to optimally position TenCate
Advanced Composites for continued
sustainable growth, the management of the
group expressed the desire to review the
options to potentially form a combination with a
strategic partner who, among other aspects,
could provide the group with the right scale. As
a result of the progress of this review after 31
December 2017, the Executive Board holds the
view that TenCate Advanced Composites
qualifies as a held-for-sale group as at the date
of this report. On 14 March 2018 TenCate
issued a press release following the
announcement of Toray Industries (“Toray”)
regarding the acquisition of TenCate Advanced
Composites. Toray is committed to further
accelerate the growth of TenCate Advanced
Composites in the coming years, fully
supporting the group’s management strategy
and investment plans.

The number of employees has increased
during 2017 mainly as a result of the
enhancement of the TenCate business groups
and acquisitions. Growth of the employment
during 2018 will also take place as a result of
the anticipated organic growth.

Toray and TenCate have agreed to jointly
develop an integration plan to support the
envisaged growth plans. Toray will acquire
TenCate Advanced Composites for an
enterprise value of € 930 million. The
completion of the envisaged transaction is

6

expected in the second half of 2018 and is
subject to customary approvals by regulatory
authorities. The agreement is also subject to
completion of the consultation process with
TenCate’s workers council.

Corporate Social Responsibility
TenCate is well rooted in society in the
Netherlands with a history dating back before
1704. As such TenCate is proven to be a stable
and sustainable company, which plays an
important role in local communities. TenCate
also has a long-standing history outside the
Netherlands and plays an important part in
local communities in which it seeks to be a
reliable employer.
TenCate develops and produces technical
textile materials, which contribute positively to
the security and safety of people and their
living environment. In this context TenCate
companies formulated their policy to minimize
their impact on the environment and minimize
the use of resources such as water and energy.
This policy includes waste reduction, the
recycling of raw materials and the development
of end products which can be recycled in any
form.
Sustainability is part of the TenCate value
proposition. All TenCate products and systems
contribute specifically to sustainability and have
intrinsic advantages over traditional products
due to weight savings, CO2 footprint reduction,
fuel savings and increased safety and
protection.
Sustainability is also a key element in the
production processes of TenCate materials. A
growing part of TenCate’s offering includes
aspects of a circular economy. As an example,
TenCate Grass was the first company in the
industry to introduce fully recyclable synthetic
turf sports fields and biodegradable products.
Reducing energy use and water consumption is
a key element of saving costs, as well as
reducing the environmental footprint.
Many TenCate businesses are ISO 14001
certified. This also provides an accepted
standard for environmental and safety control
of key processes. Processes are monitored
constantly as part of operational risk
management within all TenCate market groups.

Technological innovations and
R&D
TenCate’s technological innovations cater for
today’s needs for safe and sustainable
solutions. “Protecting people” is TenCate’s
promise. Materials, modules and systems from
TenCate make a difference and are the means
of fulfilling social, ecological and economic
needs and expectations. The production of
innovative materials which are lightweight,
increase safety, offer more comfort, comply
with new rules and regulations gives TenCate
an “expert” profile in its market niches. The
innovative competences and flexibility of
TenCate will be used to provide solutions which
deliver a positive contribution to the demands
of end markets in connection with
environmental aspects, sustainability and
safety.
Total research and development expenses
including capitalized development costs were
€ 22.3 million in 2017 (2016: € 24.6 million). In
2017 TenCate received € 0.6 million (2016:
€ 0.7 million) in development grants. These
relate mainly to European, national and
regional development grants.

Personnel
At the end of 2017, TenCate employed 3,796
people (FTE excluding temporary staff, 2016:
3,550). Of the total number of employees in
2017, 76% were male and 24% female.
Human Resource Management was fully
decentralized during 2017, with the TenCate
business groups being fully responsible for
their own HR-related tasks, although in the
Netherlands the groups cooperate with each
other in connection with collective labor
agreements in the textile sector, educational
programs etc. A combined works council is also
still in place in the Netherlands, monitoring
social and employment matters and related
topics.
During 2017 a decision was taken by
TenCate’s pension fund to liquidate the fund
and transfer all pension rights to the Dutch
textile industry sector pension fund (MITT). In
consultation with all stakeholders a new
pension scheme has been adopted, which is at
least equal to the existing pension scheme of
TenCate. Some of the conditions of the
“standard” pension scheme as applied by MITT
were improved and/or amended in order to
comply with the requirements of the transition.
The central works council gave its consent to

7

the transition of the pension rights to MITT and
to the new pension scheme which will be
effective from 1 January 2018. TenCate made
a one-time cash settlement for, amongst other
matters, agreed future recovery premiums
amounting to € 10 million. In addition, TenCate
will pay all transfer-related costs up to an
amount of € 3 million.

Energy
Total energy consumption amounted to
approximately 1,649 terajoules (2016: 1,697).
Among TenCate’s production processes, fabric
production and synthetic fiber extrusion are the
most energy-intensive.
Biogas is produced in the company’s own
wastewater treatment plant and is used to
produce steam for processes. The table below
shows the percentage breakdown of energy
consumption based on the main energy
sources for 2014 to 2017.
ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY
ENERGY SOURCE
Renewable electricity
Non-renewable electricity
Biogas
Natural gas
Steam
Other sources
Total

2014
14.8%
47.6%
0.1%
24.3%
12.5%
0.7%
100.0%

2015
15.5%
47.6%
0.1%
23.4%
12.7%
0.7%
100.0%

2016
15.9%
48.3%
0.1%
22.4%
12.7%
0.6%
100.0%

2017
15.9%
47.8%
0.1%
24.0%
11.6%
0.6%
100.0%

TenCate’s Dutch production sites have an
energy efficiency improvement target of
approximately 2% per year, in line with the
Multi-year Energy Efficiency Agreement of the
Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Modint
industry organization in the Netherlands.

Waste
Over 13 kilotonnes of waste were released in
TenCate’s production processes in 2017
(similar to 2016). Almost 4.2 kilotonnes were
recycled internally during the reporting year
(2016: 4.5 kilotonnes) and almost 6.1
kilotonnes were processed externally, with an
additional 0.9 kilotonnes of waste being
incinerated by the waste processor and the
remainder being sent to landfill.

Risk management
Risks are an inherent part of entrepreneurship.
TenCate aims to identify and control these risks
at the earliest stage possible. Risk control
models have been developed for that purpose,
which are regularly updated by and discussed
with business group management. TenCate’s
risk appetite, the main risks and the applicable
risk control models for each category are briefly
described below.
Insights into TenCate’s risk appetite and the
associated limits are discussed with the
management. Limits are determined by the
strategy, code of conduct, business values,
authorization schedules, procedures and
management regulations. The risk appetite
differs in each risk category.
Risk management is covered in the
consultation with the Supervisory Board.

In 2017 TenCate’s global CO2 emissions were
145 kilotonnes (2016: 149 kilotonnes). The
data show that 76% of TenCate’s CO2 footprint
is due to electricity consumption. Of the
electricity consumed, 25% is sourced
sustainably, such as from wind power,
hydroelectricity or solar energy, and is
therefore CO2-neutral. The CO2 emissions are
mainly attributable to the energy-intensive
divisions TenCate Geosynthetics and TenCate
Grass.

To a lesser extent risk management is
monitored at holding level, governed by
centralized risk policies and guidelines. Due to
the separation of the individual business
groups, each group is adopting individual risk
management policies which are tailor-made for
the individual business. However, the
Executive Board continues to monitor the risks
of each of the individual business groups, in
particular while financing is carried out at the
holding level. Decentralization of
responsibilities will not have a material impact
on the overall risk profile of TenCate towards
the major stakeholders.

Water

Strategic and market risks

Total water consumption in 2017 was
approximately 3.0 million cubic meters (2016:
3.3 million cubic meters). The dominant
consumers of water are TenCate
Geosynthetics, TenCate Grass and TenCate
Protective Fabrics. The total volume of
wastewater was 2.9 million cubic meters in
2017 (2016: 3.1 million cubic meters).

Identified strategic risks for the individual
business groups remain the same as before
and relate to:




Limits on government expenditure
Deteriorating economic and political
conditions
Technological developments

8



Availability and price fluctuations of raw
materials.

The major risk factor in demand for TenCate
products is the level of government
expenditure. The number of customers may be
limited, even in the industrial market. In some
market groups, products are developed for
adjacent markets, reducing the dependence on
government budgets and dominant customers.
By building flexibility into cost structures, it is
possible to offset the consequences of a drop
in demand to a certain extent.
A limited number of raw materials account for a
large proportion of the materials consumed by
the market groups within TenCate. Prices in
commodity markets are liable to fluctuate
widely. Price rises cannot always be passed
on, or can only be passed on after a time lag.
In the case of some materials, shortages may
occur or a dependence on a single supplier
may develop. Such cases give rise to
availability risks or disproportionate price rises.
TenCate endeavors to reduce this dependence
by using alternatives.

Operational risks
With respect to operational risks, TenCate has
a very low risk appetite. The objective of
TenCate is to minimize the impact of
unexpected operational problems. Identified
operational risks relate to:






Continuity of production
Product liability
Retention of knowledge and skills
License to operate
IT reliability and continuity.

It is vital that TenCate has safe production
sites. This guarantees business continuity and
can prevent any loss of production capacity. At
the same time, TenCate can safeguard its
position as a dependable supplier and
customer.
Safety aspects particularly concern the risk of
fire, explosion and natural disasters, such as
floods, earthquakes or storms. In cooperation
with the insurer FM Global, corporate risk
management conducts regular annual
inspections of production sites of all market
groups worldwide.
Corporate risk management also deals with
numerous matters relating to the company’s
liabilities, including product liabilities and
insurance cover.

TenCate has various small- to medium-scale
production processes. Incidents in production
can never be ruled out. These may lead to a
loss of quality in the end-products, claims from
customers or even a temporary halt in the
production process. TenCate carries out
preventive inspections of its products and
almost all plants are ISO-certified. Control of
production processes and quality management
are important priorities in order to prevent
product claims.
The development of technical and
management competences plays an important
role in the personnel policy of TenCate. This
enables the company to monitor the quality of
products and the continuity of the production
processes.
The TenCate businesses’ license to operate
depends on close adherence to local
regulations and operation within locally
specified standards of good entrepreneurship.
Any disruptions to IT systems can impede the
operating processes. The risks are limited as
much as possible by means of information
security and fallback procedures. The operation
of these facilities is regularly tested, both
internally and externally.

Compliance risks
TenCate has a zero-tolerance policy regarding
compliance risks. Identified compliance risks
relate to:





Business ethics
Laws and regulations
Intellectual property
Export controls

The standards and values of TenCate are set
out in the code of conduct. A whistleblower
scheme enables employees to inform the
company management of any undesirable
situations. A central compliance officer has
been appointed.
All managers and controllers sign an annual
letter of representation declaring their
compliance with financial reporting and internal
control requirements.
TenCate is involved in a number of legal
proceedings resulting from normal business
operations. The results of these proceedings
are by their nature uncertain. The progress of
these proceedings is monitored continuously. A
summary is discussed twice a year within the
Supervisory Board.

9

Development of new products entails a risk of
IP rights violations. Important patents and
innovations are recorded as much as possible
in order to mitigate risks of violations. Possible
violations are investigated.

Financial risks
With regard to financial risks, TenCate has a
low risk appetite. Identified financial risks relate
to:






Availability of credit facilities
Interest and exchange rate fluctuations
Tax
Impairment
Counterparty credit risk, including
customers.

The financing of the company is centralized
through the corporate treasury department. The
corporate treasury department is also
responsible for the monitoring and hedging of
interest rate and currency rate risks. A treasury
policy is in place, which is validated with the
Boards (Executive and Supervisory Board)
from time to time.
TenCate has had direct access to the unused
part (Revolving Credit Facility) of the external
credit facility of Tennessee Acquisition B.V.

Although TenCate’s external financing is
arranged at the level of Tennessee Acquisition
B.V., the main financial risk still relates to the
availability of credit facilities, which is partly
dependent on the performance of the business
groups of TenCate. The conditions of the
external financing are in line with market
practice for companies of a similar size and
credit rating.
TenCate has a central tax management
department. Tax risks can result in a
substantial financial and operational risk. The
trend of growing awareness among national
governments and tax authorities regarding
international flows of goods and services and
rights, within and outside groups, leads to an
increased risk profile and risk awareness with
respect to local taxes, possible import duties,
value added tax, withholding tax and other
taxes. For this reason, substantial time and
resources are continuously devoted to tax
compliance.
An impairment test is carried out at least once
a year. This test is discussed with the
Supervisory Board and the external auditor.
The credit risk relating to individual customers
is monitored and partly insured.

10

TENCATE PROTECTIVE
FABRICS
Profile and strategy
TenCate Protective Fabrics is a leading
technical fabrics producer for protective
clothing applications. It has a solid reputation
and is renowned for its innovative blends.
TenCate Protective Fabrics designs, develops,
manufactures, sources and sells fabrics used
for protective clothing. The product range is
aimed at protecting people in working and
hazardous environments. The protection of
fabrics is achieved through the application of
strong know-how in blending fibers and using
finishing technologies to optimize value and
performance characteristics of the material for
end users. TenCate Protective Fabrics focuses
on four market segments of the personal safety
market: industrial safety, emergency response,
military & police and workwear. Direct
customers are predominantly professional
garment and uniform manufacturers, laundry
companies and other service providers.

production of high-volume military applications
is outsourced to a large extent in order to
achieve the required flexibility.
Much emphasis has been placed on
strengthening the production organization both
in the USA and in the Netherlands. In order to
create a stronger market orientation in Europe
with a quality-driven customer focus, the
personnel organization has been strengthened
significantly. TenCate Protective Fabrics
employs 742 FTE.
The organization of TenCate Outdoor Fabrics
(fabrics for the tent and sun awning market)
has been operationally separated from the
TenCate Protective Fabrics group. The
production layout has been modified in order to
enhance efficiency and output. TenCate
Outdoor Fabrics occupies a separate office
space and manufacturing site in Nijverdal, the
Netherlands.

Main product/market combinations
and value proposition

With the broadest product portfolio in the
marketplace covering the entire spectrum of
the protective fabrics market, TenCate
Protective Fabrics is fully dedicated to offering
end users an optimal range of personal
protection.

The key market segments for TenCate
Protective Fabrics are:

The strategy is built on the combination of
treated FR (flame-retardant) cotton products
and inherent FR fabrics, all marketed under
strongly positioned TenCate brands. The
blending strategy combines different fibers to
offer the specific protection under optimal
wearing conditions, enabling TenCate
Protective Fabrics to always offer the best
protection, optimal comfort and most
economical solution for companies facing
multiple risks in their particular working
environment.




Organization
The business group of TenCate Protective
Fabrics is a global organization with sales
offices around the world, covering a full scope
of safety fabrics, with both inherent (yarn
blends) and finished functionalities. The
group’s production sites are located in the USA
(Georgia) and Europe (the Netherlands).
Whereas production in the Netherlands is
predominantly set up as a finishing plant for FR
products and workwear, the USA operation is
more vertically organized with yarn spinning,
weaving, dyeing and finishing. The USA




Industrial safety wear – (multi) risk / safety
wear
Service / industries laundry – workwear
segment (non-flame resistant)
Emergency response
Military & police (law enforcement)

The materials of TenCate Protective Fabrics
provide protection against threats such as
flames, heat, molten metal splashes, electrical
arcs and chemicals. Each market segment
has its specific requirements. This results in a
dedicated product portfolio with an optimal
combination of protection and wear comfort,
aimed at specific end-user requirements and
qualifications. TenCate Protective Fabrics
uses a brand portfolio of products which are
well recognized in each of their specific
market segments.
The value proposition is built around TenCate
Protective Fabrics’ broad technology base and
technological expertise as well as its
independent position in terms of fiber blends in
order to provide end users with the best
possible solution for personal safety. TenCate
Protective Fabrics stands for state of the art
quality and protection, and the most
economical solution during the lifetime of the
garment.

11

The key market segments for TenCate Outdoor
Fabrics are the tent fabrics and sun awnings
markets and related outdoor applications such
as the events market and the leisure market.
TenCate Outdoor Fabrics concentrates on
market niches such as tent rental companies,
trailer tents and family tents, with an emphasis
on “safe and sustainable outdoor experience”.
The group has introduced digitally printed
fabrics in order to be able to offer customerspecific products with an innovative design in
its business to business market approach.

Performance in 2017
Consolidated revenues decreased to € 281
million in 2017 (2016: € 327 million). The main
reason for this decline is that defense-related
sales in the protective fabrics market can
fluctuate year over year due to the size of some
individual contracts and availability of
government budgets. The group remains
strongly positioned in this market segment.
Sales to North American industrial markets
increased significantly in 2017. The improved
manufacturing performance in the USA
enhanced the results of TenCate Protective
Fabrics.

Outlook
Revenues in defense markets can vary on an
annual basis due to the volume of large
delivery contracts, especially in the USA and
the Middle East. Initiatives are ongoing in order
to present TenCate Protective Fabrics as a
global supplier of choice for a full range of
safety fabrics to international garment
manufacturers and the garment service / rental
industry.
The changes in the organization of TenCate
Outdoor Fabrics and enhanced manufacturing
performance will be the foundation for growth in
market share in an overall stable to slightly
growing market.

TenCate Outdoor Fabrics realized higher sales,
also reflecting growth of market share. The
company was successful in the “Glamping”
market, the luxury segment of the rental
companies. The introduction of digitally printed
outdoor fabrics is creating momentum with
opportunities in related market segments.

12

TENCATE ADVANCED
COMPOSITES
Profile and Strategy
TenCate Advanced Composites is a global
leader in the development, supply and
production of a wide range of advanced
composite materials (thermoplastics and
thermoset) serving the aerospace,
satellite/communications, industrial (including
automotive), footwear, consumer electronics
and medical markets. TenCate Advanced
Composites’ customers include leading OEMs,
such as Airbus Industries and Boeing, in each
of its key market sectors.
TenCate Advanced Composites owns a unique
material technology portfolio and is a leading
supplier of thermoplastic composite materials
primarily for high-end structural applications in
the commercial aviation industry. In thermoset
composite applications, the group puts its focus
on high-performance materials mainly for
space applications, radomes and high-end
industrial applications.
The strategy of TenCate Advanced Composites
is aimed at expanding thermoplastic
applications for aviation on the back of
continuing trends of weight reduction, cost
savings and simplifying the production process.
In the selected thermoset composite markets,
TenCate Advanced Composites is
consolidating its already strong market position
in the USA (space and radome applications)
while strengthening its European footprint,
especially for selected high-performance niche
markets with significant volume upside
potential.

Organization
TenCate Advanced Composites operates four
production facilities in North America, two in
Europe, and one in China, employing 599 FTE
worldwide. The aerospace-focused products
are developed and produced in facilities
located in: Morgan Hill and Fairfield (CA),
Nijverdal (NL) and Langley Mill (UK). Each of
these facilities offers aerospace-certified
production and quality systems. Additionally,
TenCate Advanced Composites operates
dedicated “carbon-free” production facilities for
high-purity materials for satellite and radome
applications in the aerospace sector. TenCate
Advanced Composites supports the footwear,
medical orthotic, sporting goods and consumer
electronics industries out of its facilities located
in Camarillo (CA), Burlington (Ontario, Canada)

and Guangzhou (China). During 2017 it was
decided to relocate the Canadian production
location to the USA.

Main product/market positions and
value proposition
Aerospace-grade thermoplastic materials
include a range of fiber and resin combinations
to support high-performance aerospace and
industrial applications. Primary resin system
offerings are composed of high-temperature,
engineered thermoplastic resins. These are
produced in unidirectional tapes, prepregs and
reinforced thermoplastic laminate (RTL) forms
to enable each customer to process structural
components in a manner that best fits its
requirements.
High-performance thermoset materials include
a wide range of continuous fiber-reinforced
epoxy, cyanate ester, and BMI resin systems.
These materials are focused on meeting the
needs of “volume niche” applications within the
broad high-performance, engineered materials
segment, primarily focused on military aircraft,
radomes, unmanned vehicles, general
aviation/private aircraft, niche aircraft interior
applications, satellite structural materials,
launch vehicles and high-performance
automotive applications.
Performance composite thermoplastic
materials offer a combination of composite raw
materials and parts that are designed for highend industrial applications such as footwear,
medical/orthotic, oil and gas, automotive and
other high-performance applications. Primary
resin system offerings comprise lower
temperature, rapid processing and highly
cosmetic materials, produced in unidirectional
tapes, woven prepregs and structural RTL to
meet each of our customer’s/market’s unique
processing and performance requirements.
TenCate Advanced Composites’ unique value
proposition is based on “knowledge intensive”
capabilities to combine materials (e.g. fibers
and resin systems) with related processes into
a broad product portfolio. The extensive
knowledge of composite aerospace materials
formed over more than 25 years of materials
development can be used for expansion into
other markets demanding high-performance
lightweight solutions, in order to create further
upside potential.

13

Performance in 2017
Group revenues increased to € 193 million in
2017 (2016: € 179 million). Besides the good
performance in the USA aerospace, space and
satellite markets, strong growth was also
recorded in industrial applications. The
aerospace sales in the EU started hesitantly,
but improved towards the end of the year.
Commercial activities in consumer electronics
applications are increasing.
During 2017 TenCate Advanced Composites
completed important new qualifications for
thermoplastic composite materials for current
and future aircraft programs with major OEMs.
This will create new future growth opportunities
and enhances the group’s position as a leading
supplier for the aerospace industry.

Outlook
As also stated in past years, aerospace
structures and related markets will remain one
of the largest growth drivers in the future. The
group also expects further growth in the other
selected markets for TenCate Advanced
Composites. Recent new qualifications are
creating a solid basis for long-term growth.

14

TENCATE ADVANCED ARMOR
Profile and strategy
TenCate Advanced Armor is the global
strategic partner for survivability solutions. The
company is among the globally leading
companies in the market for lightweight
composite (passive) armor systems. The
company is well positioned and structured to
meet the requirements from demanding OEM
customers with regard to engineering
capability, technology, product range,
documentation and project management from
design and qualification, production, delivery
and after-sales service. Besides a portfolio of
passive armor solutions, the group is in the
final phase of development for the market
introduction of an active armor system, Active
Blast Defense System® (ABDS). Future
survivability solutions for platforms will combine
both passive and active armor systems.
The strategy of TenCate Advanced Armor is
aimed at being a global partner for survivability
solutions. For vehicle protection, TenCate
Advanced Armor has unique design and
manufacturing capabilities to provide state of
the art protection systems. Optimizing
production is a key element of the strategy in
order to allow efficient production for the
several anticipated large vehicle programs. The
ABDS technology enhances the future
survivability of ground vehicles, which
strengthens the group’s design capabilities to
offer vehicle-specific active and passive
armoring solutions in both Europe and the
USA.

Organization
TenCate Advanced Armor operates four
production facilities worldwide. The passive
armor production in North America is located in
Hebron, Ohio, and the active armor production
is located in Goleta, California. In Europe, the
passive armor production sites are located in
Primarette, France and Vissenbjerg, Denmark.
Sales Offices outside the USA and France /
Denmark are located in Singapore for the
APAC market and Bristol, specifically for the
UK market. The group employs 276 FTE.

Main product/market combinations
and value proposition
The group is active in vehicle protection,
aircraft protection, naval protection and
personal protection. In all segments the key
driver is defense and security spending in

response to unrest and/or emerging threats.
Markets are tender-driven and marketing
efforts are concentrated on prime contractors in
the industry. TenCate Advanced Armor
positions itself in these market segments as a
reliable and low risk partner.
In the personal protection segment, TenCate
Advanced Armor supplies hard body armor
plates for military and law enforcement users.
Furthermore, the company is a key player in
the niche market for shields used by police
forces and elite counter-terrorism units.
For end-users, the survivability products and
solutions of TenCate Advanced Armor will
reduce fatalities when operating in hostile
st
environments and exposed to 21 century
threats, such as IEDs and ballistic threats. The
low weight of the protection solutions also
ensures better mobility, increased operational
efficiency and lower lifecycle cost.
For OEMs, the engineering capabilities and
ability to customize cutting-edge materials to
become survivability solutions enable
customers to be successful in qualifying and
supplying platforms to armed forces and law
enforcement units. Forming strategic
partnerships with customers and suppliers on a
project by project basis, TenCate Advanced
Armor provides cost-effective, highperformance survivability solutions, customized
to fit individual customer and end-user
requirements.

Performance in 2017
After years of declining defense and security
spending in key markets such as the USA and
Western Europe, the renewed focus on rebuilding conventional forces and equipping and
expanding police and security forces is having
a positive effect on the business of TenCate
Advanced Armor. Total group revenues
increased by 19% to € 81 million (2016: € 68
million). In Europe in particular a good
performance was recorded, with several
vehicle programs ramping up production and
strong demand from the law enforcement
markets. The USA activities reached a turning
point in the last quarter. Deliveries in the law
enforcement market picked up. By the end of
2017 production for vehicle programs in the
USA started, with sales continuing during 2018.
The ABDS-related revenues are still
concentrated around R&D-related programs
and survivability engineering-related
assignments for external parties.

15

Outlook
Expectations are that the market in all
segments will continue to develop positively.
The need for higher protection levels for law
enforcement, the increased expected military
spending in NATO countries, and the start of
replacement and retrofit programs for vehicles
will drive this trend.
The future for TenCate Advanced Armor is built
on strong operational companies carrying out
the global segment strategy. The focus will be
on higher engineering content, as a full
survivability solution for a person, an aircraft or
a vehicle will be offered to customers.

16

TENCATE GEOSYNTHETICS
Profile and strategy

Main product/market combinations
and value proposition

TenCate Geosynthetics is a global leading
provider of geosynthetic products (nonwovens,
wovens, grids and fabricated geosynthetic
products) and solutions that enhance the
infrastructure, protect the environment and
conserve natural resources. Across all major
regions of the world, the group actively
develops, prescribes, produces, delivers and
supports products and systems mainly for civil
works and infrastructure projects, and for niche
applications related to agricultural and
recreational activities.

TCG focuses on civil and geotechnical value
propositions in infrastructure developments for
transportation, building sites, natural resources
& energy, water, and environmental
installations.

Geosynthetic products are used, among other
functions, for separation of dissimilar soils,
enhancement of soil drainage and filtration
characteristics, reinforcement of weak soils,
dewatering of sludge, erosion control and
shoreline protection. Solutions which benefit
from the use of geosynthetics include
highways, railways, retaining walls, steepened
slopes, drainage & filtration systems, marine
structures, and waste containment structures
such as landfills.
The focus of the strategic initiatives of the
group is on organic expansion by taking current
capabilities into nascent geographies,
industries and applications. Technical support
is a key aspect of the strategy in order to create
the best technical, environmental or economic
solution in the field.
The geographic focus for growth is on Asia
supported by a substantial investment program
to strengthen market presence.

Organization
TenCate Geosynthetics is organized with key
attention devoted to local and regional
customers, markets, and stakeholders,
supported by local and regional production. As
a global market leader TCG also acts globally
where it is valuable to do so, for example in
business support services, operational best
practices, and strategic product & business
developments. Key operational locations are
the United States of America, the Netherlands,
France, Austria, Malaysia and China, further
extended by a significant network of
engineering and sales employees.
Geosynthetic products are in general
engineered materials which need a technical
sales approach. TenCate Geosynthetics
employs 1,161 FTE.

The TCG value propositions:




may enable the development of projects
that otherwise might not be possible
often reduce total project costs when
compared to more traditional materials
frequently support a reduced
environmental impact of CO2

Performance in 2017
Group revenues amounted to € 344 million
(2016: € 313 million). Most markets in which
TenCate Geosynthetics is active were relatively
favorable in 2017. In addition to moderate
government spending, privately funded projects
provided good opportunities and TCG found
success in supplying increased volumes for
applications that especially benefit from its
more unique and valuable solutions. Factory
utilization and other internal optimization
initiatives have contributed to improved
margins, further leveraged through significantly
higher revenues in most regions and
application markets.

Outlook
It is expected that supportive economies and
market conditions, in combination with the
group’s breadth of products, applications and
access to various geographies, will combine
well with further focused improvement
initiatives to continue the positive trend in sales
and results.

17

TENCATE GRASS
Profile and strategy
TenCate Grass develops and manufactures
synthetic grass components (yarn and backing,
referred to as “Upstream”) and systems (turf
and installation, referred to as “Downstream”)
for application in sports fields (soccer,
American football, hockey, rugby, etc.) and
landscaping. The group is active globally with a
strong presence in Europe, the United States
and the Asia-Pacific region. Customers are
typically turf carpet tufting companies.
The Upstream market has historically been
very consolidated with a few suppliers
representing the bulk of the output. By contrast,
the Downstream market has been very
fragmented with many suppliers either
manufacturing turf carpet or installing. In the
Upstream segment, competition from Chinese
manufacturers has increased strongly, driven
by lower manufacturing costs and fast product
development. In the Downstream segment, a
consolidation phase has begun in which
TenCate Grass is fully participating.

company to bring several new developments to
the market in the third and fourth quarters of
2017, thereby regaining lost market share. One
of the key enablers was combining all R&D
activities, whereas these were previously
executed separately across three
manufacturing plants. New developments were
also supported by revamped marketing
collateral.
Increase in the Downstream presence with a
combination of organic growth and acquisitions
/ partnerships
During 2017, three acquisitions were
completed:




Taking the above into account, the TenCate
Grass group strategy is based on three pillars:





increase in the competitiveness of the
Upstream operations;
increase in the speed of product
development to meet fast-changing market
requirements;
increase in the Downstream presence with
a combination of organic growth and
strategic M&A.

Increase in the competitiveness of the
Upstream operations
In 2017 TenCate Grass launched a program
called Grass.exe. It has the objective of (1)
substantially reducing inventory, (2) decreasing
the unit price through a mix of operational
excellence initiatives and (3) generating
procurement savings. The program is still in
progress. Several intermediate objectives have
been attained with the goal of reaching all of
them by the end of 2018.
Increase in the speed of product development
to meet fast-changing market requirements
TenCate Grass has revitalized the
innovativeness and increased the time to
market for new products in order to keep the
product portfolio up to date and ahead of the
competition. This initiative enabled the



CSC, a Dutch sports pitch contractor and
longstanding partner of Greenfields, was
acquired in February. This allows CSC and
Greenfields to operate as a turnkey sports
pitch supplier and creates a marketleading presence;
SGW, an American landscaping turf
distributor and longstanding partner of
TenCate Grass in the USA, was acquired
in March. SGW is the market leader in the
USA in landscaping turf. It allows TenCate
Grass to benefit from the future growth
outlook of the market and to profit from
SGW’s unique, e-commerce-based market
proposition;
Opsa, a Spanish sports pitch contractor
and a longstanding partner of Greenfields,
was acquired in September. The Spanish
market is buoyant, sports-driven, but also
prone to water shortages, making this an
ideal acquisition.

Organization
TenCate Grass is structured as an Upstream
and a Downstream organization, each with its
own management. From a technology and
volume perspective, TenCate Grass is the
world’s leading manufacturer of yarn, with
manufacturing facilities in the Netherlands
(Nijverdal), the USA (Dayton, Tennessee) and
the United Arab Emirates (Dubai).
TenCate Grass is also in the process of
growing its Downstream presence. It was
already established with its Greenfields
(Europe and USA) and TigerTurf (UK,
Australia, New Zealand) companies and
brands. During the course of 2017 it expanded
its presence with the acquisition of two sports
field contractors in Europe and a landscaping
turf distributor in the US. This safeguards
Downstream consumption of Upstream output
but, just as importantly, it gives TenCate Grass

18

exposure to end markets, thereby providing a
much better understanding of customer needs
and wishes.
At the end of 2017, TenCate Grass employed
979 FTE (2016: 912 FTE).

Main product/market combinations
and value proposition
Yarn is the leading product of TenCate Grass.
TenCate produces other components such as
carpet backing and sub-base elements that
complement its yarns to build quality turf
systems.
The synthetic turf market can be divided into a
sport segment and a landscaping segment.
Each application demands specific yarn
qualities to comply with required system
qualifications and certifications, especially in
the sports market. Soccer, field hockey and
American football are the main applications in
the sport segment. Landscaping has been a
fast-growing segment of the synthetic turf
market. The most important selling factor in this
segment is the natural appearance and
durability of the product, most often realized
through a combination of yarn types.
The value proposition of TenCate Grass as a
supplier of turf components is based on
partnerships along the value chain and
operating in close proximity with its end market
and customer requirements. A reliable supply is
crucial for the efficient industrial process of
grass carpet manufacturing. A consistent
product quality, meeting the required
specifications, is crucial for integrators and
installers who have to comply with strict endproduct standards.

Performance
Overall revenues increased to € 322 million in
2017 (2016: € 289 million). Organic sales were
under pressure due to amongst others
significant destocking by several large
customers and weak market conditions in
China and California. China was impacted by a
non-artificial turf related toxic scandal which
initiated the development of a completely new
standard by the government, effectively
delaying new investments. California was
impacted by an unusually wet winter which
impacted sales in general but also delayed
installations of new artificial grass. The
strengthening of the entire organization with
crucial management changes has had a
positive effect on performance. The Product

Strategy has been revamped, leading to much
faster and focused product development and
fine tuning of the product portfolio.
Procurement has been centralized, with the
benefits starting to come through in the latter
half of 2017. Management of Upstream and
Downstream EMEA has been separated to
allow a much more focused approach. The
visibility of senior and commercial management
among the top 30 customers has increased
significantly. Finally, customer responsiveness
is receiving the highest attention. These
changes in corporate culture have been
perceived positively in all end markets.

Outlook
The artificial turf market continues to have
attractive growth drivers. Sport has now
reached a mature stage in the product life
cycle. The installed base of sports fields is
substantial, implying strong, recurring
replacement demand. In addition to
replacement, newbuild growth is in the midsingle digit range. Usability (number of hours of
use per time unit, which is much higher than for
natural turf) is a key driver, along with low
maintenance cost and low to no water usage.
Landscaping is enjoying double digit growth,
albeit that a large part of the market is for low
priced commodities. Growth drivers are water
shortage (e.g. in the south-west of the USA and
the Middle East), ease (consumers wanting to
spend less time on gardening) and esthetics,
with recent product development resulting in
products that are indistinguishable from natural
grass and of even better appearance.

Almelo, 5 April 2018

Executive Board
J.H.L. Albers, president and CEO
F.R. Spaan, member of the executive board
and CFO

19

Report of the Supervisory
Board
We hereby present you with the 2017 annual
report, prepared by the Executive Board and
containing the financial statements. These
financial statements were audited by KPMG
Accountants N.V. and discussed with the
Executive Board on 5 March 2018 in the
presence of the auditor.
The unqualified audit report has been included
in this annual report. We believe that the
annual report satisfies the requirements of
transparency and that it constitutes a good
basis for the Supervisory Board’s accountability
on the supervision exercised. We recommend
that the financial statements be adopted and
that the Executive Board be discharged for the
management conducted and the Supervisory
Board for the supervision exercised.

COMPOSITION
The current members of the supervisory board
are Messrs Boudewijn Molenaar, Jan Hovers,
Erik Westerink and Fred van Houten. On
December 15, 2017, Loek de Vries resigned as
a member of the Supervisory Board. This
enables him to advice on operational matters,
without the responsibilities and limitations
attached to the membership of the Supervisory
Board of TenCate. The Supervisory Board
thanks him for his value contribution to
TenCate.
The company acknowledges the importance of
a well-balanced composition of both the
executive board and supervisory board (at least
30% of the seats are occupied by women and
at least 30% of the seats are occupied by
men). As a result from the arrangements made
at the occasion of the public offer for all
TenCate shares effected in 2016, the
composition of the executive board and the
supervisory board of TenCate was changed
and presently the seats of both boards are
occupied by men. The company aims to
achieve a well-balanced distribution of seats
and the company will endeavor to select female
candidates when future vacancies arise.
However in view of the industry in which the
company operates, it will remain difficult to find
suitable candidates who also sufficiently fulfill
the other required profile.

SUPERVISION IN 2017
In 2017, the Supervisory Board met with the
Executive Board in a plenary meeting on five
occasions in the exercise of its regular duties.
Except in the case of one member of the
Supervisory Board, who was absent during
three meetings, all members of the Supervisory
Board attended the plenary meetings held. At
two meetings, a member of the Supervisory
Board attended by telephone.
Both the composition and functioning of the
Executive Board and the performance of
individual directors were discussed outside the
presence of the Executive Board.

In 2017 attention was devoted to the five
business groups of TenCate, which will gain
more independence, the strengthening of the
business group management and the
optimization of the legal and finance structure.
The Supervisory Board fully supported the
actions taken by the Executive Board in these
areas.
In January and February 2017 respectively, the
Supervisory Board approved the acquisition by
TenCate Grass of Ceelen Sport Constructies,
(the Netherlands) and Synthetic Grass
Warehouse (“SGW”) (California, USA). In
September it endorsed the acquisition of Obras
Y Pavimentos Especiales, S.A. (“OPSA”)
(Spain).
The Supervisory Board endorsed the
refinancing of the TenCate Group in January
2017, which resulted in a decrease in interest
costs, and it approved the further amendment
of the Senior Facilities Agreement in December
2017, resulting in improved interest conditions.
On 14 September 2017 the Stichting
Pensioenfonds Koninklijke Ten Cate decided to
terminate its activities and is currently being
wound up. The Supervisory Board approved
the transfer of the pension scheme of all Dutch
employees to the industry-wide pension fund
for the fashion, interior decorating, tapestry and
textile sector (“MITT pension fund") as from 1
January 2018, including the associated costs.
In addition to the topics mentioned above, the
Supervisory Board’s supervision was especially
focused on:


Evaluation of the strategic developments,
major risks and general course of business
at TenCate;

20







Financial reports, with the annual figures
also being discussed with the external
auditor;
The approval of the budget and the audit
plan;
Risk management;
Investments at TenCate.

Representatives from the Supervisory Board
also attended three consultative meetings of
the central works council.
As in previous years, the self-evaluation of the
members of the Supervisory Board took place
in the course of the work, whereby each
member’s own performance was evaluated.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Supervisory Board and the Executive
Board mainly endorse the principles of the
Dutch Corporate Governance Code. However,
in view of the company’s delisting, this code is
no longer applied in full and the company has
ceased to report on any deviations from the
code. In the future composition of the
Supervisory Board, two members will be
independent in accordance with the Dutch
Corporate Governance Code provisions, at
least in the position of continuing members.

Presently, Jan Hovers and Fred van Houten
hold this position. A separate audit committee
and appointment and remuneration committee
were no longer active during the year under
review. The topics relevant in those contexts
were discussed in the plenary meeting of the
Supervisory Board. For the remuneration of the
current [and former] members of the Executive
Board, we refer to note 50.1 of this report.
Advisory Boards have been established for
each division, with the aim of supporting the
operating management with advice and
assistance in the further development of the
company. Advisory Boards are composed of
representatives from the Executive Board of
TenCate, its shareholders and outside industry
experts. Advisory Boards meet approximately
four times per year.
The Supervisory Board thanks the
management and employees of TenCate for
their commitment and performance during
2017.

Almelo, 5 April 2018

Supervisory Board
B.T. Molenaar, chairman
J.C.M. Hovers
E.J. Westerink
F.J.A.M. van Houten

21

Executive Board and Senior Management
Jan H.L. Albers (1952),
chairman of the Executive Board
and Chief Executive Officer

Frank R. Spaan (1955),
member of the Executive Board
and Chief Financial Officer

Jan Albers has been a member
and chairman of the Executive
Board since August 2016.

Frank Spaan has been a member
of the Executive Board since
October 2016.

Other activities:
Chairman, supervisory board,
PSV N.V.
Member, supervisory board,
Nederlandse Loterij

Other activities:
Member and vice-chairman,
supervisory board, Rabobank
Twente Oost

TenCate Protective Fabrics
Don M. Olsen (1954), CEO
Mark D. Christman (1971), CFO
TenCate Outdoor Fabrics
Rob Verver (1959), General Manager
Jan Getkate (1964), Finance Director

TenCate Advanced
Composites
Stephen L. Littauer (1956), CFO
Frank Meurs (1967), COO
Scott Unger (1962), CTO
Steve Mead (1971), CCO

TenCate Advanced Armor
Steen Tanderup (1970), CEO
Wilfred Sluyter (1972), CFO

TenCate Geosynthetics
Wally Moore (1963), CEO

TenCate Grass
Michael R. Vogel (1964), CEO
Jan A. Teekens (1971), CFO

Supervisory Board
Boudewijn T. Molenaar (1953),
chairman
Commenced in office: 2016
End of current term: 2020
Partner and managing director,
Gilde Buy Out Partners B.V.
Member, supervisory board,
Teleplan International N.V.
Member, supervisory board,
Royal Reesink N.V.

Jan C.M. Hovers (1943)
Commenced in office: 2008
End of current term: 2020
Member, supervisory board,
Randstad Groep Nederland B.V.
Former Chief Executive Officer,
Stork NV and OCE NV

Erik J. Westerink (1961)
Commenced in office: 2016
End of current term: 2020
Partner, Parcom Capital
Management B.V.
Chairman, supervisory board, RH
Marine Group
Chairman, supervisory board,
Frames Group
Member, supervisory board,
Hartstichting
Board member, Stichting Vrienden
Teylers Museum

Fred J.A.M. van Houten (1951)
Commenced in office: 2016
End of current term: 2020
Emeritus Professor of Design
Engineering, University of Twente
Member, supervisory board, Apollo
Vredestein B.V.
Member, Smart Industry Forum
Member of the Royal Flemish Academy
of Belgium for Sciences and the Arts
Member of the German Academy of
Science and Engineering

All members of the Supervisory Board
have the Dutch nationality.

22

Koninklijke Ten Cate B.V. / Royal TenCate
Stationsstraat 11
Postbus 58
7600 GD Almelo
The Netherlands
Telephone +31 (0)546544911
E-mail: royal@tencate.com
Website: www.tencate.com

23

