ING Group
Annual Report

2017

Empowering people

Our customers’ world isn’t standing still and neither is ours.
Rapid technological advances and digitalisation are
changing their behaviour. They now expect the same
personal, instant, relevant and seamless experience from
their bank that they get from other digital providers. To
keep meeting their expectations, we’re speeding up our
digital transformation. So we build a bank that will be
relevant for our customers, now and in the future.

Empowering people to stay a step
ahead in life and in business

Contents
Report of the Executive Board
ING at a glance
CEO statement
The world around us
Our strategy and how we create value
Improving the customer experience
Our business
Our people
Risk and capital management
Composition of the Executive Board and Management Board Banking
ING Shares
About this report
Independent auditor’s assurance report

3
6
9
16
23
28
38
42
51
52
55
57

Corporate governance
Chairman’s statement
Report of the Supervisory Board
Corporate governance
Dutch Corporate Governance Code Statement by the Executive Board
Report of the ING Continuity Foundation
Conformity statement
Section 404 Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Report of independent registered public accounting firm
Remuneration report
Works councils

61
63
70
83
84
85
86
87
88
100

Consolidated annual accounts
Consolidated statement of financial position
Consolidated statement of profit or loss
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated statement of cash flows
Notes to the consolidated annual accounts
Risk management
Capital management

103
104
106
107
110
112
223
289

Parent company annual accounts
Parent company annual accounts

295

Other and additional information
Independent auditor’s report
Articles of Association - Appropriation of results
Risk Factors
Non-financial appendix
Non-GAAP measures
General information

ING Group Annual Report 2017

309
315
316
337
354
355

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

ING at a glance
We are a global financial institution with a strong
European base offering banking services.
Our customers are at the heart of what we do.
ING has a presence in over 40 countries. Though our local
businesses vary in terms of their market positions, all are
guided by our purpose of empowerment and strategy
to provide customers with a differentiating customer
experience.
Market Leaders are our businesses in mature markets
in the Benelux where we have strong market positions
in retail and wholesale banking. We’re implementing an
operational integration of Belgium and the Netherlands
as part of our strategy to provide a uniform customer
experience based on a digital-first model, enhance
operational excellence and create greater cost efficiency.
Challengers are our businesses in markets where we aim
to build a full banking relationship digitally distributed
at low cost via platforms like Model Bank, which we are
developing for several European banking markets, and
Welcome, in Germany. We are also using our direct
banking experience to grow the lending business at low
cost in areas like consumer and SME lending. And we are
using our strong savings franchises to fund expansion of
Wholesale Banking in these markets.
Growth Markets are businesses with a full range of
retail and wholesale banking services in markets with

Market Leaders
The Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg
Challengers
Germany, Austria, Spain, Italy, France, Australia, Czech Republic
Growth Markets
Poland, Turkey, Romania and bank stakes in Asia
Wholesale Banking activities only

ING Group Annual Report 2017

3

expanding economies and strong growth potential. We’re
investing to achieve sustainable franchises and will focus
on digital leadership by converging to the
direct-first model and prioritising innovation.
Wholesale Banking provides corporate and financial
institutions with specialised lending, tailored corporate
finance and debt and equity market solutions. We also
offer working capital solutions, payments and cash
management and trade and treasury services to help
them achieve their business goals. We support our
clients’ international needs with local presence in more
than 40 countries.

Our customers

Our employees

37.4 million

54,000+

(year-end 2017)

(year-end 2017)

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

ING at a glance – continued

Performance highlights
Non-financial key figures
Net Promoter Score Retail Banking (number of countries with number one ranking, rolling average)1
Total number of Retail Banking primary relationships (in million, year-end)1,2
Climate Finance (lending outstanding in EUR billion, year-end)3
Social Impact Finance (lending outstanding in EUR billion, year-end)3
Sustainable assets under management (in EUR billion, year-end)
Number of customers that felt financially empowered (in million, year-end)1
Human Capital Return on Investment indicator
Retail Banking system availability in the Netherlands and Belgium (in percentage)1,4
Wholesale Banking system availability (in percentage)1,4

2017

2016

2015

7
10.8
14.6
0.5
4.8

7
9.9
3.3

7
9.2
2.6

25.4

23.9

20.5

2.51

2.59

2.48

99.7

-

-

100

-

-

Consolidated result5
in EUR million

Net result attributable to ING Group's shareholders
Underlying net result Banking
Underlying result before taxation Banking
of which underlying income
of which underlying operating expenses
of which underlying addition to loan loss provision

2017

2016

2015

4,905
4,957
7,199
17,704
9,829
676

4,651
4,976
7,028
17,458
9,456
974

4,010
4,219
5,959
16,552
9,246
1,347

2017

2016

2015

846
846
50
574
540

845
845
50
561
523

1,005
842
48
533
501

2017

2016

2015

30.0
310
22

28.1
314
31

28.0
321
44

Balance sheet
in EUR billion, year-end

Total assets ING Groep N.V.6
Total assets ING Groep N.V.7
Shareholders' equity ING Groep N.V.
Customer lending ING Groep N.V.7,8
Customer deposits ING Groep N.V.7

Other indicators
Effective underlying tax rate (in %)
Risk-weighted assets ING Group (EUR billion, year-end)
Underlying risk costs in bps of average RWA

Our financial goals
Common equity Tier 1 ratio fully loaded ING Group
Leverage ratio ING Group9
Underlying cost/income ratio
Underlying return on equity ING Group
Dividend per share (in euros)

Ambition 2020

2017

2016

2015

> Prevailing fully-loaded requirements
>4%
50-52%
Will provide more clarity in 1H18
Progressive dividend

14.7%
4.7%
55.5%
10.2%
0.67

14.2%
4.8%
54.2%
10.1%
0.66

12.7%
4.4%
55.9%
8.6%
0.65

2017

2016

2015

1.26
12.97
0.67
12.1
1.18

1.20
12.84
0.66
11.1
1.04

1.04
12.36
0.65
12.0
1.01

Share information
Net result per share (in euros)
Shareholders' equity per share (end of period in euros)
Dividend per share (in euros)
Price/earnings ratio
Price/book ratio (end of period)
1
2
3
4
5
6

Subject to reasonable assurance by KPMG. Throughout the report indicated with a . See ‘Independent auditor’s assurance report’, page 57.
200,000 additional primary customers due to restatement in 3Q2017 in Poland; historical numbers have been restated.
A description of ING’s Climate Finance and Social Impact Finance, see www.ing.com/17ar01.
Scope is not comparable to availability reported for 2016 and 2015.
For further explanation of non-GAAP measures, see ‘Additional Information’ section of the Annual Report.
ING changed its accounting policy for the netting of cash pooling arrangements in the second quarter of 2016. In accordance with IFRS, the comparable amounts for
2015 were adjusted.
7 The comparable 2015 cash-pooling balances in Customer lending and Customer deposits are still presented on a net basis in order to provide consistent information to
its users.
8 Customer lending is defined as: loans and advances to customers -/- securities at amortised costs -/- provision for loan losses.
9 The leverage ratio of ING Group according to the Delegated Act (including grandfathered securities) takes into account the impact of grossing up the notional cash
pool activities.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

4

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

ING at a glance – continued

Non-financial review

7

Top rankings out
of 13 countries

Net Promoter Score Retail Banking1

Our customer centric focus helped us
achieve a first-place ranking in seven
countries, compared with two or more
selected local peers. NPS surveys were held
in 13 countries with retail banking activities.

25.4 mln

customers felt
financially empowered

14.6 bln
Climate Finance

0.5 bln

4.8 bln

Social Impact Finance

Responsible finance

In 2017, we matured and strengthened our
approach by introducing a responsible finance
portfolio, replacing our Sustainable Transitions
Financed. At the end of 2017, Climate Finance
amounted to EUR 14.6 billion and Social
Impact Finance amounted to EUR 0.5 billion.

2.51

Sustainable Assets under
Management (SAuM)

Sustainable Assets under Management
increased to EUR 4.8 billion, up by EUR
1.1 billion of new business. This underlines
our clients’ appetite for products and
services that apply sustainability criteria.

99.7%

Retail Banking in the
Netherlands and Belgium

100%

Wholesale Banking

Financial empowerment1

Since 2015, we have been measuring our
efforts to improve the financial behaviour of
our customers and society. In 2017, 25.4
million people felt financially empowered as
a result of interactions with our financial
empowerment initiatives.

Effective employer Human Capital ROI

The Human Capital Return on Investment
indicator helps us identify the influence of HR
inputs on the organisation’s productivity. This
ratio of profitability divided by employee costs
was 2.51 in 2017 compared to 2.59 in 2016.

System availability1

We strive to maintain a high level of system
availability of our online payments channels.
For 2017, weighted system availability for
Retail customers in the Netherlands and
Belgium was 99.7%. For Wholesale Banking
customers, system availability was
100% globally.

Financial review

+ 5%
Net result ING Group

The increase reflects a stable underlying net
result from Banking, whereas the 2016 result
included the negative impact from special
items (restructuring charges related to the
digital transformation programmes), in part
offset by the positive net result from the
discontinued insurance operations. ING sold
its final stake in NN Group in April 2016.

-31%
Addition to the loan loss provision

Risk costs declined to 22 bps of average RWA
(which is below ING’s through-the-cycle risk
cost average of 40-45 bps), driven by a
benign credit environment in most markets
where ING is active.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

- 0.4%
Underlying net result Banking5

The underlying net result was stable as higher
interest results, increased fee income and
lower risk costs were offset by lower one-off
gains and volatile items, higher expenses
(mainly due to investments in strategic
projects and higher costs to support business
growth) and a higher effective tax rate.
Commercial performance was robust with
4.8% net growth in the core lending book.

14.7%
Fully loaded CET1 ratio ING Group

The CET1 ratio improved from 14.2% at
year-end 2016, due to an increase in CET1
capital combined with lower RWA as positive
risk migration and FX impacts more than offset
the impact from volume growth and model
updates. The increase in CET1 capital was
driven by net profit, partly offset by the
proposed dividend payments and a decline
in reserves.

5

10.2%
ING Group’s underlying return
on equity5

ING Group’s underlying ROE was 10.2% in
2017, broadly in line with 2016. Although
more clarity is now available following the
agreement on Basel ‘IV’, it is still too early to
announce a Group ROE target.

55.5%
Underlying cost/income ratio5

The cost/income ratio increased from 54.2%
in 2016, as income growth was outpaced by
higher expenses. This was mainly due to
higher expenses to support business growth
and increased investments in strategic
projects; the related benefits will materialise
later. ING remains committed to the
Ambition 2020 target of 50-52%.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

CEO statement
Building the bank of the future
ING delivered strong commercial growth and
financial results in 2017, and we continued
to empower customers with a differentiating
experience. We also made good progress
laying the foundations for the ING of the
future. With disruption in banking increasing,
we’re accelerating the implementation of our
Think Forward strategy to deepen and expand
the customer relationship.

At ING, our purpose is to empower people to stay a step
ahead in life and in business. This guides us as we shape
our own business to serve our customers and continue
to excel for them in the future.
In 2017, we again saw rapid growth in interactions with
customers through mobile devices. With our Customer
Promise to be clear and easy, available anytime and
anywhere, to empower and to keep getting better, we’ve
established ourselves as a leader in digital banking.
Across the bank we see many examples of how we are
putting our purpose and Customer Promise into practice.
In many retail countries we offer easy-to-access digital
tools that help customers make smart choices when
deciding between savings and investment options,
empowering them to achieve their current and longerterm goals. We’re also making banking easier, like in
Germany, where we offer time-saving features such as
a fully digital, three-step account opening process and a
digital income check that allows fast loan approvals even
when that income is at another bank.
Solid performance in 2017 in Wholesale Banking
demonstrated the skills that differentiate us in the
market. These include sector expertise in industry
lending and expertise in areas like payments and cash
management, working capital solutions and financial
markets that support the financial resilience of clients.
We’ll further develop Wholesale Banking as a clientfocused franchise that offers a consistent experience
across borders. This includes moving to a stronger
sector organisation and strengthening our international
network with more resources in Asia and the Americas.
Customer numbers are rising. In 2017, the overall
number of retail customers increased to 37.4 million,
up more than four million since the launch of the Think
Forward strategy in 2014. The number of primary

ING Group Annual Report 2017

6

relationships – customers with a current account with
recurring income and at least one other product – grew
to 10.8 million. We’re on track to meet our ambition of
14 million primary customers by 2020. We were rated
number one in terms of NPS in seven of our 13 retail
markets in 2017.

2017 results

These strong relationships with customers helped to
drive ING’s robust commercial growth and financial
results in 2017. ING recorded a full-year 2017 net profit
of EUR 4,905 million, an increase of 5.5 percent year-onyear. Our net core lending to customers grew by almost
EUR 27 billion, or 4.8 percent, and net customer deposits
rose by EUR 19 billion compared to year-end 2016.
Lending growth came from all regions, except the
Netherlands, which saw a decline in mortgages. The
growth was well diversified, with strong growth in the
retail activities in Belgium and the Challengers & Growth
Markets, but also from Industry Lending and Working
Capital Solutions within Wholesale Banking. Income
increased, driven by resilient interest margins and higher
fee income and despite lower one-off gains and volatile
items. Risk costs declined further due to the benign
credit environment in most markets where ING is active.
Expenses rose mainly due to an acceleration in digital
investments and higher costs to support business
growth. Our capital base strengthened, with ING Group’s
CET1 ratio improving to a robust 14.7 percent at
year-end 2017. ING’s underlying return on equity was
with 10.2 percent broadly in line with 2016.
Reflecting these strong results, the Board proposes to
pay a total 2017 dividend of EUR 0.67 per ordinary share,
subject to shareholder approval at the AGM in April
2018. This is in line with our goal of paying a progressive
dividend over time, while maintaining healthy capital
levels.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

CEO statement – continued

Building the ING of the future

ING’s strong 2017 performance came against a
backdrop of challenges for the banking sector. Low
interest rates are pressuring margins from savings and
lending activities. New regulatory rules are increasing
capital costs for core activities like mortgages and
industry lending. But the most significant development
is digitalisation and how it is shaping customer
expectations and the competitive landscape.
Banking products have become commoditised; and I
firmly believe the customer experience will be the key
future differentiator. The standard is now being set
by digital disruptors. Among them fintechs, who are
applying a superior digital experience with low-cost
online delivery to compete for key areas of banks’
value chains. The biggest digital disruptors are now
serious contenders, like Google and Apple in the area of
payments, and China’s Alibaba and Tencent (owner of
WeChat) that both now have banking licenses.
These developments are an important opportunity for
ING. This digital trend, with its direct interaction with
customers in a personal, instant, relevant and seamless
way based on standard products, plays more to ING’s
strengths and experience than to that of any other
incumbent. The fast growth ING is experiencing shows
we’re succesfully applying our own two decades of
experience as digital disruptors with ING Direct.
I believe digital ‘ecosystems’ are where customers will
spend their time in the future. At ING, we aim to be part
of these ecosystems and also to be a go-to platform for
all our customers’ financial needs, open to third-party
providers of financial and other relevant offerings.
To achieve that, we’re accelerating the Think Forward
strategy and transforming our organisation. Our
ambition is to build a scalable digital banking platform
across borders that provides customers with the same
clear and easy experience wherever they interact with
us; one that can integrate into other digital platforms to
serve customers where they need us. We’re developing
the data skills so we really know our customers and
can provide the personal and relevant service they
expect. This will be the basis of a strong brand that earns
customer loyalty and sets us apart from competitors.
These ambitious changes aren’t possible without a
strong culture of innovation. We foster that through
our PACE methodology. It combines elements of
Lean, Agile Scrum and Design Thinking and uses fast
experimentation and customer validation to cut the
time to market for innovations and other improvements.
Our innovative approach includes our own internally
incubated fintechs. Like Yolt, whose aggregation app is
in beta testing in the UK and growing rapidly. And the
Payconiq payments app that we launched in Belgium
and plan to roll out in the Netherlands and Luxembourg.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

7

Partnerships with over 100 fintechs are speeding up our
own pace of innovation. In late 2017, we launched the
EUR 300 million ING Ventures fund to invest in start-ups
and companies that have already gained some market
traction. These investments are aligned to our strategy
of providing a differentiating customer experience.
At the same time that we transform ING and prepare
for the future, we must also ensure that our day-to-day
operations meet the highest standards and that we
continue to live up to the expectations of customers
and society. This includes ensuring that critical nonfinancial risk areas, such as customer due diligence and
anti-money laundering measures, stay top of mind
and are supported by a structural approach and strong
foundations.

Supporting a sustainable world

Banks have a major role to play in supporting the
sustainable development and responsible behaviour and
policies. This is something we’re committed to at ING,
and something I personally feel very strongly about.
In 2017, ING financed sustainable projects in areas
including renewable energy, water management and
public service infrastructure.
Banks can’t create a sustainable world alone, but they
can have a real impact. We decided in 2017 to focus our
sustainability efforts on contributing to a low-carbon
and self-reliant society. We think this will have the
most impact both for our customers and society. This
also supports our commitment to the UN Sustainable
Development Goals, particularly on sustainable and
inclusive economic progress (goal 8) and on sustainable
consumption and production (goal 12).
For businesses, this includes increasing financing for
responsible companies while reducing financing for
carbon-intensive sectors, continuing our involvement in
the circular economy and increasing financing aimed at
promoting social progress. For customers, our approach
to promoting a self-reliant society includes providing
them with tools and insights that improve their financial
decision-making and resilience. We do this as well for
the general public through the Think Forward initiative,
an independent expert platform researching consumer
behaviour and developing solutions to help them make
better financial choices.
ING continued to be recognised in 2017 for our
commitment to sustainability. We were again included
in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index’s (DJSI) World
Index and Europe Index for banks, scoring 89 out of
100, compared to an industry average of 58. And the
non-profit global environmental disclosure platform
CDP again named ING a global leader in the corporate
response to climate change.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

CEO statement – continued

Regulation

On the regulatory side, there were a number of
important developments in 2017. The first is PSD2,
the EU payment services directive that is opening
Europe’s payments industry to non-banks. This will
greatly increase competition and promote innovation
in areas like mobile and internet payment services. But
in practice non-banks are less strictly regulated than
banks, particularly in areas like customer due diligence,
fraud and cyber-security risks, as well as the use of
commercial and payment data. It’s important to address
this lack of a level playing field, both in the interests
of customer security and to promote fair competition,
especially with the powerful global tech firms.
Secondly, Basel ‘IV’ rules were agreed that introduce
common capital floors for various types of lending.
The idea behind these floors is to promote a level
playing field. However, because they fail to take default
experience and differences in legal systems into account,
they achieve the opposite of a level playing field and will
increase the cost of borrowing, for instance in areas like
mortgages. This will ultimately impact the important
role banks play in facilitating economic growth.
Another issue is bank taxes. Introduced following
the financial crisis to compensate for the perceived
advantage banks gained by receiving state support,
these taxes have now been abolished in a number of
eurozone countries. We regret that the Netherlands
has not yet followed suit. This puts Dutch banks at a
competitive disadvantage compared to many of their
European peers.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

8

The way forward

I am proud that ING was named Best Bank in the
World 2017 by Global Finance magazine, which cited in
particular our digital leadership and strong innovation
culture. This prestigious award recognises the many
achievements that we’ve made through the creativity,
hard work and commitment of ING’s talented employees
around the world.
In a world in flux, finding the way forward can at times
be challenging, but I’m confident that at ING we have
the vision, entrepreneurship, drive and financial strength
to turn today’s achievements into success in the future.
I’d like to express my appreciation to our customers and
shareholders for their continued confidence in ING. And
I wish to sincerely thank our employees for all their hard
and excellent work in 2017. They inspire me every day.

Ralph Hamers
Chief Executive Officer ING Group
5 March 2018

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

The world around us
The world around us is constantly changing.
This chapter highlights several trends that
have a major impact on our own operating
environment, as well as on that of our
competitors. This includes the economy
and current low interest-rate environment;
increasing regulatory scrutiny and costs;
digitalisation and changing customer
behaviour; and what our stakeholders
expect of us.
Increased global economic momentum

Economic momentum picked up further in 2017,
outpacing the global economic growth seen in 2016.
In the United States, growth has remained strong. This
is now the second-longest economic expansion since
the end of World War II. At the same time inflation has
stayed low, allowing the Federal Reserve to follow a very
gradual path of interest rate increases.
In the euro area, all member states’ economies are
growing. The eurozone’s economic performance was
particularly positive, as the area recorded its lowest
unemployment rate in nine years and economic
confidence reached pre-crisis levels.
In the United Kingdom, economic growth has slowed,
against a background of continued uncertainty about
the future relationship with the European Union. The
economy in Asia remained strong with growth rates
of the advanced economies in that region generally
accelerating. Growth in major emerging-market
economies has improved overall, helped by a rebound in
some commodity producers that experienced recessions
in 2015–16.

Rates increase, but remain low

Longer-term government bond yields
rose somewhat compared to their 2016
lows on the back of a strengthening
global economy, the Fed’s US rate
increases and the anticipated end to
exceptionally easy monetary policy
elsewhere.

However, with inflation in most developed economies
staying low, longer-term yields remained modest while
equity markets in advanced economies performed well
and corporate credit spreads were at, or close to, their
tightest levels since the beginning of 2008. Volatility was
subdued despite increased geopolitical tensions around
North Korea.

Euro on the rise

The euro rose against the US dollar in 2017, propelled by
the strengthening economic outlook in the euro area,
diminishing political uncertainty and expectations about
the tapering of quantitative easing in the euro area.
ING Group Annual Report 2017

9

Regulatory landscape and continuing
uncertainty

Continued delays around the Basel ‘IV’
discussions (i.e. the revisions to Basel
III) addressing the variability of banks’
internal models, which weren’t finalised
until December 2017, led to ongoing
international uncertainty. This had
an impact on strategic planning and
business decisions for many banks.

At a European level, the Single Supervisory Mechanism
continued to strengthen its supervisory role through the
ECB. This was reflected in the priorities it set for 2017:
business models and profitability drivers; credit risk, with
a focus on non-performing loans and risk concentrations;
and risk management.
The Single Resolution Board adopted its first resolution
decisions for banks from Italy and Spain. Meanwhile
the resolvability of banks has been further improved
by building up loss-absorption buffers. European global
systemically important banks are advancing their bail-in
issuances and will likely meet the internationally agreed
total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) standards per 2022.
Resolution authorities have provided European banks
with initial targets for minimum requirement for own
funds and eligible liabilities (MREL). These targets will
be reviewed once the ongoing discussions on the bank
recovery and resolution directive (BRRD) and the review
of capital requirements regulations (CRR) have been
finalised.
The Single Resolution Fund is also showing a steady
increase. The size of the fund is now almost EUR 18
billion, aiming to meet the target requirement of EUR
55 billion in 2023. Despite the fact that the discussion
on the European Deposit Insurance Scheme (EDIS) didn’t
show much progress throughout 2017, the completion
of the Banking Union gained political momentum. In the
course of 2018, further steps are expected to ensure
its completion by 2019. We would also welcome a
deepening of the Economic and Monetary Union, which
would help to enhance economic and financial stability
in the eurozone.
The range and complexity of non-prudential regulation
(regarding other things than financial strength)
continues to increase. Regulation is becoming more
stringent in areas like customer due diligence, and
transaction monitoring to detect and report money
laundering (AML), terrorist financing and fraud. Individual
country laws and specific regulations often prevent
cross-border information sharing, between public and
private authorities and between private parties. This
restricts the effectiveness of bank systems and is most
evident when large financial institutions operate a global
compliance model.
ING will participate in a public/private sector partnership
initiated by Europol and the Institute of International
Finance. This high-level forum aims to find better ways
to share information within existing laws.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

The world around us – continued

In general, ING continues to favour a more harmonised
European approach to regulations. This would help to
align the customer experience across borders and could
accelerate the digitalisation of ING’s banking services.
ING’s regulatory costs increased to EUR 901 million
from the already elevated level of EUR 845 million in
2016. This was due to ING’s contribution to local deposit
guarantee schemes, the European resolution fund and
bank taxes.
2017 marked the kick-off of Brexit negotiations. ING is
monitoring these closely to make Britain’s exit from the
EU as smooth as possible for our business and customers.

Competitive landscape

Technology is removing a number of the barriers to entry
that once insulated our business. We face competition
from many different directions, with relatively new
players providing more segmented offers to our
customers. Technology giants, payment specialists,
retailers, telecommunication companies, crowd-funding
initiatives and aggregators are all entering the market
for traditional banking services. Our customers, in turn,
are more willing to consider these offers.
Safe banking requires specific knowledge of financial
services, in-depth knowledge of customers, and rigorous
risk-management systems. As competition from outside
the banking sector continues to increase, we have to
become faster, more agile and more innovative.

With our long track record and strong brand, we believe
we are well placed to seize these opportunities and
become a better company for all of our stakeholders.
We are a leader in digital banking, and we have scale
combined with local market expertise. We are investing
in building profitable, mutually beneficial relationships
with our customers based on the quality of our service
and the differentiating experience we offer them. We
continue to work hard to win their hearts and minds,
demonstrating our concern for them and all our
stakeholders. We aim to be even clearer about the
strategic choices we make.
The diagram at the bottom of this page shows what we
perceive to be our strengths, weaknesses, opportunities
and threats based on assessments by management.
Read more in ‘Our strategy and how we create
value’ chapter.

Societal challenges

In our view, both climate change and the so-called
fourth industrial revolution can lead to societal
changes.
The effects of climate change, including the growing
scarcity of water, food, energy and other material
resources, pose daunting social and environmental
challenges. The causes and the solutions to these
challenges are complex, but we already know that
they will change traditional business models.

Our perceived strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats

Strengths

Weaknesses

• Strong and trusted brand with positive recognition
based on our differentiating customer experience in
many countries

• High interest-income dependency

• Leader in digital banking

• Diversity challenges

• Among leaders in sustainability

• Lower efficiency compared to disrupters
(e.g. tech giants)

• Balance sheet quality and stable funding base
• Global network provides competitive advantage
• Diversified business model
• Agile way of working

Opportunities

Threats

• Leverage our customer trust and reputation

• Cybercrime

• Improve the customer experience by accelerating
innovation and becoming more agile

• Potential competition from new entrants to
the market

• Embed data-driven culture

• Low interest-rate environment

• Create scalable cross-border banking platform

• Expected Basel ‘IV’ impact on our lending franchise

• Leverage expertise in digital delivery of advice and
support aimed at improving customer decisionmaking

• Increasingly complex regulatory environment leading
to heightened execution and non-compliance risk

• Increasing market for Sustainable Finance
• Preferred banking partner for fintechs

ING Group Annual Report 2017

• Lack of international level playing field in many
relevant areas, like equity buffers, bank taxation,
data (PSD2), remuneration
• Financial sector continues to have an unfavourable
public image in many countries

10

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

The world around us – continued

Business models, but more importantly people’s lives,
will also be influenced by the so-called fourth industrial
revolution – fast-changing technology such as artificial
intelligence that will cause many jobs to change, be
relocated or eliminated altogether.
We believe in taking the long view and in going beyond
just mitigating the harm related to these challenges –
we want to drive sustainable progress. Banks can bring
about change through their financing choices. We aim
to use our position to help lead the global transition to
a low-carbon and self-reliant society, tackling climate
change and the fourth industrial revolution.

What matters most to our stakeholders

To improve as an organisation, we need to continuously
identify and understand the topics our stakeholders find
most important and how these relate to the actions and
decisions we make. This helps us balance competing
expectations and address topics in an informed way.
We conduct a materiality assessment every year,
gathering input from stakeholders and ING’s
management to assess what matters most to them and
our business. We identify the issues with the highest
priority for stakeholders and the biggest potential
business impact. This guides us in our strategic decisionmaking, stakeholder engagement agenda and reporting
framework.
See the ‘Non-financial appendix’ for a detailed process
description of the 2017 materiality assessment.

Overall results show that non-financial topics continue
to gain importance. We saw for example that both
stakeholders and ING’s management still regard
innovative business developments as one of the most
important topics. This includes disruptive technologies
across industries, the threat from small fintechs as
well as giants such as Facebook and Google, and the
opportunities that advanced data analytics provide in
serving our customers.
Read more in the ‘Our strategy and how we create
value’ chapter about innovation.

Responsible finance and investment policies, strongly
influenced by external developments around topics such
as climate change and human rights, gained visibility
both inside and outside of ING. Stakeholders expect
ING to have a long-term vision on where we can make
the biggest impact. We see our purpose – to empower
people to stay a step ahead in life and in business – as
inherently sustainable. ING focuses on using our position
as a global bank to spur environmental and social
progress, empowering a low-carbon and self-reliant
society.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

11

Also gaining importance across stakeholder groups is
the topic of enhancing customer financial capabilities.
Stakeholders find that banks have a responsibility to
increase the financial knowledge of their customers.
We see this as part of the way we empower people to
stay a step ahead.
Customers expect targeted/personalised explanation
of products and services based on their needs. They
also expect ING advisors to have good knowledge of
products and services and to explain them in an easy
and transparent way.
Usability and accessibility of products and services
were deemed more important in 2017. We aim to keep
improving our mobile and online offering as we focus on
improving the customer experience. Banking products
have become increasingly commoditised – there is little
to differentiate one savings account or transactions
service from another. Instead, customers choose their
bank for the experience it offers. For ING, this means
being clear and easy, available anytime and anywhere
and most of all empowering – putting customers in
the driver’s seat when it comes to their own finances.
This topic of ‘usability and accessibility of products and
services’ could be a game-changer for ING, given our
strategy.
Read more in the ‘Our business’ chapter.

Overview material topics

Customer centricity
A

Innovative business developments

B

Customer privacy and data ethics

C

Enhancing customer ﬁnancial capabilities

D

Stability of IT systems and platforms

E

Usability and accessibility of our
products and services

F

Financial performance

G

Pricing of products and services

H

Managing risks (ﬁnancial risks and
non-ﬁnancial risks)

Economic contribution

Responsible business practices
I

Corruption prevention

J

Responsible ﬁnance and investment policies

K

Transparency

Human capital
L

Diversity and equal opportunities

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

The world around us – continued

Opportunities & Risks

Material topic

Our approach and performance

More information

Customer centricity
Opportunities:

A

• Focus on improving customer
experience by accelerating innovation
and becoming more agile.

Innovative business
developments
Innovate to adapt and
remain relevant.

• Digital delivery of advice and support
aimed at improving customer
decision-making.
• Scalable cross-border banking platform
to make online interaction personal,
instant, seamless and relevant.
• Embed data-driven culture.

Innovation section in the
‘Improving the customer
experience’ chapter.

ING had more than 100 fintech partners by
the end of 2017, 21 of which ING invested
in.
Our annual Innovation Bootcamp attracted
786 ideas from 22 countries.

B

Customer privacy and data
ethics
Our duty to handle
customers’ data with the
utmost care and only
process personal data for
specific business purposes.

Risks:
• Technology is removing a number of
barriers to entry that once insulated
financial services.
• Cybercrime, fraud and cyber-security
risks arising due to growing
digitalisation across banking.

In 2017, ING launched a EUR 300 million
venture capital fund to deepen fintech
partnerships and accelerate the pace of
innovation.

C

Enhancing customer
financial capabilities

Our approach can be summarised as: the
right people using the right data for the
right purpose.
We set up ethical committees in the ING
countries in 2017 as well as a framework for
dealing with dilemmas related to how we
use data.

Stability of IT systems and
platforms
Securing the stability of
ING’s IT systems and
platforms, such as payment
services, internet banking
and apps.

E

Usability and accessibility
of our products and
services

Balancing our responsibilities:
Innovative business
developments vs. data ethics
section in the ‘The world
around us’ chapter.

In 2017, 25.4 million people felt financially
empowered. a

Financial empowerment
section in the ‘Our business
(Retail Banking)’ chapter.

For 2017, ING’s weighted system availability
for Retail customers in the Netherlands and
Belgium was 99.7%. For Wholesale Banking
customers, system availability was 100%
globally. a

Reliability and stability section
in the ‘Improving the
customer experience’ chapter.

Across ING, digital channels account for
98% of contact with retail customers.

Digital first section in the
‘Our business’ chapter.

Helping people make
smarter financial decisions
with transparent tools,
tailored offers and expert
advice.
D

Data section in the ‘Improving
the customer experience’
chapter.

Differentiating experience
section and Financial
empowerment section in the
‘Our business (Retail Banking)’
chapter.

Stand out by making
banking personal, instant,
seamless and relevant to
our customers.

Economic contribution
Opportunities:

F

• Competitive advantage due to global
presence.
• Utilising specific, in-depth knowledge
of financial services, knowledge of
customers and rigorous riskmanagement.
• Generating fee-based income.
Risks:
• Interest rates are increasing, but
remain low.
• Business and strategic impact due to
‘Basel IV’.
• Executions risks because of
increasingly complex regulatory
environment.
• Lack of an international level playing
field

Financial performance*
Being a financially healthy
and stable company is
important to stakeholders
and us.

• Leveraging a stable funding base and
balance sheet quality.

G

Pricing of products and
services
Fair pricing of products and
services is important for our
competitiveness in the
marketplace.

ING Group recorded robust commercial
growth and strong financial results in 2017,
with a full-year 2017 net profit of EUR 4,905
million, an increase of 5.5 percent
year-on-year.

Performance highlights table
in ‘ING at a glance’ chapter
‘Our strategy and how
we create value’ chapter.

We continue to perform well against most
of our Ambition 2020 targets, including
those for capital, leverage ratio and
dividend.
We actively manage our interest rate risk
exposure and successfully maintained the
net interest margin on our core lending in
2017. To manage this challenge moving
forward, we are proactively developing new
offerings at fair pricing that help empower
our customers and generate fee-based
income, while our transformation
programmes will help us to bring down our
cost/income ratio to our target range of
50-52% by 2020.

Fair pricing section in the
‘Our business’ chapter.

By end-2017 our total number of retail
customers stood at 37.4 million, and
primary relationships rose by more than
900,000 during 2017 to 10.8 million. We are
on schedule to meet the target of 14
million primary clients by 2020.

* The financial topics are covered by KPMG’s audit of the consolidated annual accounts. See page 309 for the ‘Independent auditor’s report’.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

12

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

The world around us – continued

Opportunities & Risks

Material topic

Our approach and performance

More information

Economic contribution
H

Managing risks (financial
risks* and non-financial
risks)
Managing risks is at the
heart of what we do. Safe
banking requires strong risk
management, both
financial and non-financial.

The NPL ratio, non-performing loans (NPLs)
expressed as a percentage of lending credit
outstandings, decreased to 1.9% at the end
of 2017 from 2.1% at the end of 2016. ING’s
loan-to-deposit ratio, excluding securities
that are recorded at amortised costs,
remained unchanged at 1.05. Risk costs
decreased to EUR 676 million from EUR 974
million in 2016.

‘Risk and capital
management’ chapter.

In addition to financial risks, ING also
monitors and has controls aimed at
mitigating non-financial risks such as IT &
cybersecurity, operations and compliance
to rules, regulations, laws as well as the
ethical norms.

Responsible business
practices
Opportunities:

I

Corruption prevention
ING’s role and activities in
preventing corruption
practices.

• Growing market for sustainable
finance, shift in financing towards a
low-carbon economy and societal
challenges.
• Transparency shows that banks have
nothing to hide and are open to
discussions, strengthing trust and
reputation.

Through e-learning modules, awareness
sessions and reading materials, we train
employees on non-financial risk topics,
including money laundering, terrorist
financing, sanction and export control
compliance, conflicts of interests,
miss-selling and corruption.

>

Key developments section in
the ‘Risk and capital
management’ chapter.
www.ing.com/17ar02

ING has started a bank-wide financial and
economic crime (FEC) enhancement
programme that aims to address
shortcomings identified in Know Your
Customer (KYC) processes.

Risks:
• Banks should adequately consider
environmental and social risks within
their day-to-day business decisions.
• Financial sector continuous to have an
unfavourable public image in many
countries.

Compliance risks section in
‘Notes to the Consolidated
annual accounts’.

ING has a zero-tolerance policy on bribery
and corruption.

J

Responsible finance and
investment policies
Clear policies and direction
guiding our finances and
investments towards
societal challenges and
low-carbon economy.

• Corruption and decreased
transparency leads to increasing
reputational risks.

Responsible finance section in
the ‘Our business’ chapter.

We promote activities that we believe have
a positive impact on society through
responsible financing and by increasing
sustainable investments (SAuM). In 2017,
our financing to Industry ESG leaders
(IESGL) was EUR 5.5 billion, climate finance
was EUR 14.6 billion, and social impact
finance was EUR 0.5 billion.

Sustainable investments
section in the ‘Our business’
chapter.
Environmental and Social Risk
management section in the
‘Risk and capital
management’ chapter.

In 2017, our SAuM was EUR 4.8 billion.
Furthermore, we strengthened our
Environmental and Social Risk (ESR)
framework, which guides decisions for
client engagement and assessing finance
proposals. We continuously revisit both the
relevance of our policies and effective
application in practice.
K

Transparency
Being transparent about our
investments, products and
services, and other topics.

In 2017, we published a detailed breakdown
of our entire portfolio, approximately EUR
775 billion (as per 31 December 2016),
detailing the amount we finance per sector.

Balancing our responsibilities
section in the ‘The world
around us’ chapter.

>

Simplified balance sheet in
the ‘Non-financial appendix’.
www.ing.com/17ar03

Human capital
Opportunities:
Diversity within companies attracts
talent, helps to understand customers
better, increases engagement and
supports sound business decisions. It is
also linked to better financial
performance.

L

Diversity and equal
opportunities, preventing
discrimination
Ensuring ING’s employees
are diverse and have equal
career opportunities.

The number of female managers and
female managers of managers remained
fairly stable. Of our managers, 39 percent
are female (38 percent in 2016) while for
managers of managers, 29 percent are
female – the same as in 2016.

Who we are section in the
‘Our people’ chapter.

Risks:
Losing talented employees, or not
having a diverse group of employees,
could lead to sub-optimal financial
performance as well as affect a
company’s reputation.
* The financial topics are covered by KPMG’s audit of the consolidated annual accounts. See page 309 for the ‘Independent auditor’s report’.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

13

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

The world around us – continued

Balancing our responsibilities

Different stakeholders may have competing concerns.
Sometimes these are even contradictory. Here, we
outline some of the dilemmas we face in balancing these
different interests.

Innovative business developments
vs. data ethics

In today’s digital world, customers
expect high-quality products and
services that are easy to use, relevant
to them, provide better insights, make
their lives easier and reduce daily
tasks. ING innovates continuously to
meet these requirements.

Still, customers are growing concerned about boundaries
when sharing personal information, particularly when
it comes to their financial data. Where does it stop? At
what point does processing and analysing data infringe
too much on their private life?
While the legal boundaries currently differ per country,
social and cultural context also play an important role in
determining the personal boundaries for our customers.
Regulations such as the General Data Protection
Regulation (GDPR) in the EU are welcome to harmonise
and clarify under which circumstances companies
should collect, use and process data.
We’re transparent about the way we handle our
customers’ data and seek their consent where it is
necessary. But is this enough? We understand the
sensitivities around data collection and privacy and the
need to comply with legal and regulatory requirements.
For ING, the concept of data ethics often precedes or
goes beyond rules and regulations.
Earning and keeping the trust of our customers is of
paramount importance. Customers trust us to keep
their – and our – data safe. We believe that data ethics
should be an integral part of our culture, behaviour and
decision-making processes.
To achieve this we are introducing a data ethics
framework across the bank. This includes specifying
values and principles for customers and employees
to make sure dilemmas are treated consistently
throughout ING; establishing values and principles in all
areas involving data analytics; establishing data ethical
committees across businesses and countries; engaging
with stakeholders; increasing awareness among
employees; and periodically assessing our performance.
Data offers countless opportunities, but we must be very
careful about how we use it.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

14

Transparency vs. customer privacy

It’s clear to us that our stakeholders
want to know more about where and
to whom we lend money. Yet there is
sometimes a conflict of interest between
greater portfolio transparency and
customer confidentiality/privacy.

Transparency has gained importance with international
initiatives such as TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosures) and the UNGP (United Nations
Guiding Principles Reporting Framework), and Dutch
initiatives such as the Banking Covenant on Human
Rights backed by the government, the Dutch Banking
Association and NGOs.
In 2017, we published a full breakdown of our entire
portfolio as at year-end 2016, approximately EUR 775
billion, itemising amounts for the sectors we finance.
This is in line with the Dutch Banking Association’s
Transparency Protocol, which ING helped to create as
part of a working group of banks. It tells a transparent
story about how diverse and global we are.
If we receive a specific request for information, customer
interest comes first. We strive to be as transparent
as possible in line with local and international rules
and regulations. Unless restricted by such rules and
regulations, we aim for optimal transparency, asking
for customer consent when required. We feel that this
balances different stakeholder interests as much as
possible.

Financing energy vs. climate change

We want to help lead the global
transition to a low-carbon, climateresilient economy. As a large global
bank we feel we can have greater
impact by helping our clients with their
own transition to less carbon-intensive
business models.

The world is transitioning step by step, but the fact
is that the economy (and a number of countries in
particular) can’t yet do without fossil fuels, which ING
also finances. There is still too little renewable energy,
and experts haven’t yet been able to develop an efficient
and affordable means of storing sustainable energy.
The Paris Agreement commits nations to a scenario
where the rise in global temperatures remains within
2 degrees, with an ambition to achieve a 1.5-degree
scenario. Some are calling for action based on this
1.5-degree scenario.
On the one hand, the International Energy Association
estimates in its 2017 Energy Outlook that in a 2-degree
scenario, almost half of global energy demand will
still be met by oil and gas in 2040. On the other hand,
there is an ever-increasing pressure from civil society to
immediately stop financing sectors affecting climate
change. What position should ING take?

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

The world around us – continued

We know our greatest impact is in our financing. ING has
financed billions of euros of wind farms, solar energy,
and geothermal power production, for example, but also
fossil fuels.
We try to find a balance between societal expectations
and economic reality. As we assess potential clients and
deals, our approach is to have a dialogue and support
them in improving their environmental and social impact
where possible. Our response to funding requests is
often, ‘yes, but…’, outlining improvements that the
company will have to make first. Our Environmental and
Social Risk policies also guide us. We sharpened our coal
policy and will accelerate the reduction of our financing
to coal power generation, with the ambition to reduce
our exposure to close to zero by 2025.
ING believes that we can play a responsible role in
enabling society’s orderly and affordable transition
to a low-carbon economy by continuing to finance
select projects in the oil and gas industry, alongside our
increasing support for investment in renewable energy
and energy efficiency.

Cooperation vs. competition

Change is happening at a faster pace
than ever. Today’s emerging trend can
become the norm in two years and be
obsolete a year later.

New companies with innovative
business models can upend decades
of common business practice. Conventional wisdom
on what comprises an industry or sector is being
questioned.
There is a trend toward open online platforms
incorporating third-party offerings and the rise of digital
ecosystems where people network, shop, bank and do
many other things in one place. This is challenging banks
to re-think and expand their business models to allow in
partners, including ones from outside the financial world,
who can enhance the customer experience.
We at ING believe that all future plans should be driven
by our customers’ expectations and needs in terms
of use, information and accessibility. This includes
partnering with other banks, fintechs and parties outside
the world of finance. But there is a line to be drawn
between where we cooperate and where we compete.
The Payconiq app exemplifies the cooperation approach.
This began as a fintech within ING, seeking to make
payments easier for customers and retailers. We
rapidly realised that this mission was only achievable
with critical mass. We decided to partner with other
banks and subsequently share ownership with them.
While Payconiq partly disrupts our existing payments
business, it also shows we proactively deal with changes
affecting our markets. It also works, as the platform is

ING Group Annual Report 2017

15

used by 35,000 merchants in Belgium and is expanding
to multiple countries. Our actions demonstrate our
determination to make a real impact for customers in
this area by spurring evolution in the industry. However,
in other situations we choose to create our own
solutions, without partners.
Within financial services, although it may seem like there
is a stark choice to be made between cooperation and
competition, they sometimes coexist – and feed off each
other.

Embracing digitalisation vs. equal
regulations for all parties

Just as consumers can now easily shop
online, they should also have digital
access to the full scope of banking
services from the comfort of their
own homes – from opening a current
account to taking out a mortgage loan.

ING embraces digitalisation and, on the one hand,
welcomes new entrants to the market. On the other
hand, many of these new entrants (fintechs) aren’t
subject to the same regulations as banks.
Within Europe, we still see differences in member states’
regulatory requirements on anti-money laundering,
banking secrecy, e-signatures, language requirements,
etc.
Current local legislation sometimes restricts customer
on-boarding and can limit our ability to offer the easy
and convenient experience that consumers have
grown to expect. This legislation can sometimes inhibit
innovation altogether. Fintechs aren’t yet required to
adhere to these requirements and can easily on-board
customers using ‘derived identification’.
In the current new financial world, a level playing
field is needed so all players can embrace and work
towards innovative products with more or less the same
regulatory challenges.
 ead more on some of the dilemmas ING faces and how
R
we approach them in the ‘Issues table’ (Non-financial
appendix).

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Our strategy and how we create value
ING’s progress since launching the Think
Forward strategy in 2014 confirms that
we are heading in the right direction.
With the trends we identified at that time
continuing and even intensifying, we are
accelerating the implementation of our
strategy to remain relevant for customers in
the future and to continue to provide them
with a differentiating experience.
Since the launch of the Think Forward strategy in 2014,
ING has achieved strong business growth, increasing
customer numbers and robust financial performance.
Our progress on these fronts confirms the relevance of
our strategic direction.
At the heart of the Think Forward strategy is our purpose
to empower people to stay a step ahead in life and in
business and the Customer Promise to be clear and
easy, available anytime and anywhere, to empower and
to keep getting better.
A healthy increase in customer deposits and strong
growth in core lending since the launch of the strategy
show the appeal of our proposition to customers. This
has also strengthened our business by providing more
stable and attractive funding, better returns through
own-generated assets and more diversified lending
geographically and over segments.
The growth in overall customer numbers is being
outpaced by even faster proportional growth in the
important category of retail primary relationships,
those customers with a current account and recurring
income and at least one other product with us. This
growth has been spurred by continuous improvements
to the customer experience, leading to more customer
interaction, which in turn helps us to know customers
better and tailor offerings better to their needs. We are
on track to achieve our ambition to serve 14 million
primary customers by 2020.

Accelerating the Think Forward strategy

We developed the Think Forward strategy in response
to trends that have not only continued to impact our
world and the banking industry but which we now see
intensifying.
Digitalisation is increasing, changing how people
interact with service providers and their expectations
as customers. Fintechs and other new entrants to the
market are taking advantage of new regulations and the
easy access and low-cost delivery available through the
internet to compete for key parts of banks’ value chains.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

16

Tech giants like China’s Alibaba and Tencent (owner of
WeChat) now even have full banking licences, making
them direct competitors of banks. And continued low
interest rates and increasing regulation are pressuring
banks’ profitability. Banks need to look beyond
traditional business models for new ways to offer value
to customers.
At ING, we believe banking products and services are
becoming commodities. The only way to differentiate
in the future will be through the customer experience.
Customers’ expectations are being set by the personal,
instant, relevant and seamless experience provided
by digital platforms like Amazon, Apple, Facebook and
Google. These leaders offer access to platforms where
customers connect to one another and to businesses
and where they spend more and more of their time.
To remain relevant to customers we need to create a
similar experience, one that is uniform wherever and
through whatever channel they do business with us.
We aim to be the go-to and open platform for all our
customers’ financial needs, including providing relevant
third-party offerings. And a platform that can integrate
into other digital ecosystems so we are there for
customers and other users wherever they need financial
advice and services online.
To achieve this, we are accelerating our Think Forward
strategy and transforming our organisation. Key
to this is working toward one global and scalable IT
infrastructure with a modular approach for easy plugand-play connections. We are on course to implement
one global approach to data management. And we
will support this with one Way of Working. We believe
this will help us collaborate better across borders and
innovate much faster and at lower cost. As a first step,
we are converging businesses with similar customer
propositions that can benefit from economies of scale
and a more standardised approach.
Culture is crucial to achieving our ambitions. We need a
culture that puts the customer at the centre of what we
do. And also one that fosters innovation. We accelerate
innovation through ING’s own PACE methodology,
which combines Lean Start-up, Agile Scrum and Design
Thinking methods and encourages fast experimentation
based on customer feedback. Our annual Innovation
Bootcamps also encourage employees to come up
with initiatives to improve the customer experience
and compete for seed funding. And we partner with
numerous fintechs to improve the customer experience
and accelerate our own pace of innovation.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Our strategy and how we create value – continued

Our strategy on a page

With the launch of our Think Forward strategy in March 2014, a one-page
overview was created to show our strategy in a clear and visual way.

Purpose

Empowering people to stay a step
ahead in life and in business

Customer
Promise
Clear and Easy

Strategic
Priorities

Anytime, Anywhere

Empower

Keep Getting Better

Creating a diﬀerentiating customer experience
1 Earn the primary relationship
2 Develop analytics skills to understand our customers better
3 Increase the pace of innovation to serve changing customer needs
4 Think beyond traditional banking to develop new services and business models

Enablers

ING Group Annual Report 2017

Simplify &
Streamline

Operational
Excellence

17

Performance
Culture

Lending
Capabilities

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Our strategy and how we create value – continued

Going agile

The world is changing quickly, and so too are customer
expectations. At ING we’re working to speed up the pace
of innovation for the customer. Multidisciplinary teams,
like the Dutch team above, pool their skills to speed up
time to market for new products and services. Teams
use customer feedback to create a continuous cycle
of improvement.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

18

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Our strategy and how we create value – continued

Elements of our strategy

Our Think Forward strategy was launched in 2014. It
guides everything we do. This section describes the
strategy and includes references to examples and
additional information on how our strategy links to the
material topics identified by our stakeholders.

Strategic priorities

To deliver on our Customer Promise and create a
differentiating customer experience, we have identified
four strategic priorities:

1. Earn the primary relationship

The better we know our customers, the better we will be
able to empower them to make smart financial decisions
and continue to be relevant for them. We can do this
best when they do a range of banking with us and when
we are the bank our customers go to for their daily
transactions. We call that the primary relationship.
In Retail Banking, we define the primary relationship as
a payment account with recurrent income and at least
one other product with ING. In Wholesale Banking, we
aim to increase primary relationships by increasing our
so-called ‘flow’ relationships (e.g. Transaction Services,
Working Capital Solutions and Financial Markets) and
the percentage of relationships where we are the client’s
lead finance provider.
Read more in the ‘Our business’ chapter.

Material topics: financial performance, pricing of
products and services, enhancing customer financial
capabilities, transparency.

2. Develop data analytics

The relationship between banks and their customers
is increasingly a digital one. Digitalisation challenges
banks to maintain intimacy with a customer whom they
rarely meet face-to-face. But the digital interface also
provides a wealth of data on customers’ preferences and
needs that gives banks important insights they can use
to provide the kind of experience customers now expect
from businesses they interact with online. Analytic skills
are essential for serving customers in a digital world
and also for preventing fraud, improving operational
processes, reducing risks and generating services that
go beyond traditional banking. At ING, we recognise that
excelling at data management is a core competency
if we are to realise our ambition to create a personal
digital experience for customers. We are on course to
implement one global approach to data management to
ensure we maximise the potential of this key resource.
An international Advanced Analytics team based in
Frankfurt and Amsterdam acts as a centre of excellence,
and local advanced analytics teams operate in country
and business units. Our chief data management
officer oversees the implementation of global data
management together with local data officers.
Read more in the ‘Improving the customer experience’
chapter.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

19

Material topics: customer privacy and data ethics,
managing risks (financial risks and non-financial risks).

3. Increase the pace of innovation to serve
changing customer needs

Evolving customer expectations, new technologies
and new competitors are transforming banking.
Through innovation, we can increase efficiency,
improve the customer experience and gain competitive
advantage. We do that, for example, through ING’s
own PACE innovation methodology and employeedriven Innovation Bootcamps. To speed up the pace
of innovation we also partner with outside parties,
including fintechs.
Read more in the ‘Improving the customer experience’
chapter.

Material topics: innovative business developments,
usability and accessibility of products and services.

4. Think beyond traditional banking to
develop new services and business models

Thinking beyond traditional banking is crucial given that
disruption in the banking industry puts a significant
portion of revenues at risk. To be successful, banks
need to expand the concept of what a bank is and
what it means to customers. Our payments value
chain is already under threat from many bank and
non-bank players. We are responding by creating an
open digital platform. It will include relevant offers from
third parties and provide a complete financial overview
for customers in one place, including of their holdings
at other institutions so they are empowered to make
better financial decisions. We also aim to find ways
to be relevant to customers earlier in their purchasing
decision-process, such as not only offering a mortgage,
but also connecting customers via our platform to real
estate listings and other things they need when buying
a new house, like insurance, legal advice and even a
removal company. ING is developing and looking into
initiatives in numerous beyond banking value spaces,
including the circular economy, the ‘silver’ economy
(ageing population), housing and mobility.
Read more in the ‘Improving the customer experience’
chapter.

Material topics: innovative business developments,
responsible finance and investment policies.

Enablers

Four strategic enablers support the implementation
of our strategy: simplifying and streamlining our
organisation, operational excellence, enhancing our
performance culture and diversifying our lending
capabilities.

1. Simplify and streamline

Simplify and streamline refers to ING’s aim to become
a more effective, cost-efficient and agile organisation
with the flexibility to respond to fast-changing customer
needs and low-cost competitors. We are introducing one
Way of Working based on end-to-end, multidisciplinary

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Our strategy and how we create value – continued

teams that provide customer improvements from design
to product delivery at lower cost and with shorter time
to market than previously required. We have already
introduced this in the Netherlands and will gradually
implement it company-wide, initially focusing on all
product and service delivery units by end-2018. We are
also implementing target operating models (TOMs) to
streamline our Finance, HR, IT, Procurement and Risk
functions.
Read more in the ‘Improving the customer experience’
chapter.

Material topics: usability and accessibility of our
products and services.

2. Operational excellence

Operational excellence requires continuous focus. We
need to ensure that ING’s operations provide a seamless
and flawless customer experience. Our operational
excellence vision concentrates on the Customer Promise.
To meet changing customer expectations arising from
increasing digitalisation, we aim to converge to a single
platform for financial services that will deliver a uniform
customer experience across borders. This will be based
on simplified and standardised products and systems
supported by modular architecture, integrated and
scalable IT systems, and shared services. While pursuing
this ambition we are also investing to provide stable IT
systems and platforms to ensure we are there for our
customers when they need us and to provide them with
the highest standards of data security.
Read more in the ‘Improving the customer experience’
chapter.

Material topics: stability of IT systems and platforms,
usability and accessibility of our products and services.

3. Performance culture

A strong performance culture is crucial to achieving
the bank’s ambitions and delivering on our Customer
Promise. To do this, we focus on a number of areas,
including stepping up leadership capabilities and building
the engagement and capabilities of employees across
the organisation. ING believes in a direct link between
employee engagement and business performance
and our ability to serve customers. Our performance
management process encourages employees to take
personal responsibility for their performance and
development. ING supports employees with training and
professional and personal development. To promote the
leadership behaviours needed to achieve ING’s strategy,
tailor-made leadership training has been developed for
top managers and also for all people managers within
ING globally.
We are also committed to accelerating the development
of diversity and strengthening an inclusive culture in
ING where everyone can be themselves. We believe that
there is a clear link between diversity and better financial
performance. Differences in gender, age, background,
sexual orientation, physical ability and religious beliefs
enable us to solve problems and respond to challenges
ING Group Annual Report 2017

20

in different ways. We have a range of initiatives in place
to do this, including our global diversity manifesto which
applies to all of our more than 54,000 employees. The
manifesto sets out what diversity means at ING, why it’s
important, and what employees and managers can do
to make a difference.
Read more in the ‘Our people’ chapter.

Material topics: diversity and equal opportunity.

4. Lending capabilities

Broadening and diversifying our lending capabilities to
continue to grow client franchises is our fourth strategic
enabler. To do so, we are seeking opportunities in
Retail, SME and Consumer Lending segments, as well
as focusing on Wholesale Banking lending growth in
our Challengers & Growth Markets businesses and in
our specialised Industry Lending franchise. In 2017,
we continued to grow and diversify lending at healthy
margins, with strong growth in the retail activities
in Belgium and the Challengers & Growth Markets,
but also from Industry Lending and Working Capital
Solutions within Wholesale Banking. We also partnered
with fintechs to extend innovative instant lending
solutions for SMEs to France and Italy following an earlier
successful introduction in Spain.
Read more in the ‘Our Business’ chapter.

Material topics: financial performance, responsible
finance and investment policies, enhancing customer
financial capabilities.

How we create value

At ING we believe that it is our role to support and
promote economic, social and environmental progress
leading to a better quality of life for people in society,
while generating adequate returns for shareholders. We
want to be the bank of the future and therefore take the
long-term view, to inform our decisions and priorities in
the shorter term.
As part of our Think Forward strategy and purpose to
empower people, ING launched its 2022 sustainability
goals, bringing sustainability and innovation together
to deliver on our customer promises. We see it as our
responsibility to address the long-term global challenges
arising from climate change and the so-called fourth
industrial revolution. Over the next five years we’ll focus
our efforts and our business where it matters most –
on climate resilience and social resilience to empower
people to stay ahead.
The value creation model on pages 21-22 illustrates
what we do to create value with our stakeholders in
society through our unique Customer Promise. The
framework of the international Integrated Reporting
Council and the six capitals defined in it, serve as a basis
for this model.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Our strategy and how we create value – continued

External trends

Intensifying
digitalisation and
cybercrime

New entrants to the
market

Lack of international
level playing field

Low interest rates
depressing banks’
interest margins

Digital platforms
opening up to more
than one provider

A need to reduce
operating costs

Risks and opportunities
from transition to a low
carbon economy

Complex regulatory and
political landscape

Em

p ow

Clear

er

an

de

as

y

Empowering people
to stay a step
ahead in life
and in business

Value in

Value out

p

tt

e

re

e
Ke

ge

ing

bet

te r

Anytim

e

y
, an

wh

Impact on society
A self-reliant society

• F inancially empowered people who contribute to a healthy economy.
• A diversity programme that empowers colleagues from all backgrounds.
• Empowered corporate clients with strong social and human rights policies and practices, meaning
better business for society.
• Empowered adolescents through our Power for Youth programme with UNICEF.

A low-carbon society

• Increased financing for responsible companies, enabling them to get ready for tomorrow’s economy.
• Reduced environmental impact by decreasing financing for carbon-intensive sectors.
• Creating a platform and attention for sustainable business opportunities and the businessmodels of
the future, including the circular economy.
• Reduced environmental impact of our own operations.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

21

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Our strategy and how we create value – continued

Value in

Value out
Platform thinking
• 98% of interactions with
retail customers via digital
channels

54,000+ employees worldwide
• EUR 76 million spent on
training and development
• Strong belief in diversity

Financial

• 1,500 managers trained
on Think Forward
Leadership Experience to
support strategy roll-out

Innovation

• EUR 50.4 billion
shareholders’ equity and
EUR 148.9 billion debt
securities in issue, bank
deposits and
subordinated loans

p

• ING supports the
UN Sustainable
Development Goals
• ESR Framework applied to
WB corporate loans

• ING is an RE100 member
and a Circular Economy
100 (CE100) corporate
member of the Ellen
MacArthur Foundation

de

as

y

Facilitating
savings
& lending

p

ge

Differentiating
customer
experience

tti

ng

bet

te r

Anyt

im

e, a

ny

• Leverage ratio of 4.7%
- 2020 target is >4%
• Cost/income ratio 55.5%
- 2020 target is 50-52%

w

• 139 Active fintech
partnerships and
investments
• Joined circular
economy platform
Madaster

ING Group Annual Report 2017

22

Social & network

• 25.4 million customers
feel financially
empowered by ING a
• EUR 574 billion in
customer loans

Enabling a low-carbon society
• EUR 14.6 billion in
Climate finance
• EUR 5.5 billion in finance
to Industry ESG leaders

Innovation

• EUR 800 million in
digital transformation
investments
• 786 ideas submitted to
Innovation Bootcamp

Empowering customers
• Increase in primary
relationships to almost
11 million
• Customers in 7 out of
13 countries rank ING #1
in terms of NPS a

Financial

• Common equity Tier 1
ratio fully loaded of
14.7%

Beyond traditional banking
he

Our people

• Jobs may be impacted by
the acceleration of the
Think Forward strategy
• 39% of women in
management positions

Strong financial position

e

Sustainable development

r an

• ING received top
employer recognition in
7 countries
• ING in the healthiest 25%
of organisations in the
Organisational Health Index

Empowering people
to stay a step
ahead in life and in business

Ke

• Over 4,600 employees
trained on PACE, ING’s
new way to innovate

Clea

Providing
payments
& transaction
services

Move fast, fail fast
• Launch of ING Ventures,
a EUR 300 million venture
capital fund for fintechs

Our planet

Em

r
owe

Trusted financial partner
• Over 37 million customers
entrust us with their
payments and deposits

• Retail system availability
for the Netherlands and
Belgium of 99.7% a

Agile, engaged and empowered

re

Our people

Products & services

• ING launches sustainable
improvement loan,
rewarding corporate
clients for their
sustainability
achievements

Our planet

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Improving the customer experience
Customers are spending more time online and
on their smartphones. They expect banking
to be the same personal, instant, relevant,
seamless and borderless experience that they
have there. Recognising this, and inspired
by a new breed of digital disruptors who are
redefining financial services, ING is preparing
for a future in the platform age.
We believe that tomorrow’s successful businesses will be
those that find relevant roles on the preferred platforms
of their customers – or create relevant platforms
themselves. And businesses that focus relentlessly
on providing a compelling and consistent customer
experience, empowering people to be self-reliant and
take control of their own situations.
While no-one knows for certain what the future holds for
the financial sector, our vision is of a digital, mobile-first
platform and one in which multiple players use each
other’s platforms to offer new and different products and
services that extend beyond banking.
For instance, house buyers could arrange a mortgage,
insure their home and all its contents, digitally sign the
contracts and even connect to a removal company.
Beyond banking offers new revenue opportunities for
ING. We are exploring areas such as housing, mobility,
data management and storage, the circular economy
and the silver economy (ageing population). This has
led to initiatives like circular economy leasing platform
Papayagogo and TrustX, which uses algorithms to detect
fraud at SMEs.

Platforms

In many ways platform thinking is an extension of what
we have always done: empower people to take control
of their own situations. Like traditional marketplaces,
platforms connect suppliers with consumers. The
difference is that platforms are enabled by technology,
which can be used to achieve huge scale at near-zero
costs. And there’s a data layer that helps create scale
and efficiencies, increasing the value created for all
participants. The data itself has high value. Banks
can use it to develop new products and services and
personalise the user experience.
Another feature of platforms is that they are generally
‘open’ – using APIs (application program interfaces) to
allow third parties to provide complementary goods and
services, thereby strengthening the network effects and
making them more appealing to users, which in turn
attracts more merchants.
ING is working towards becoming such an open banking
platform – the go-to place for all people’s financial
needs. To reach this ambition requires an innovative
culture and a willingness to connect and cooperate with
ING Group Annual Report 2017

23

others. We also have to work the same everywhere, be
operationally excellent, be efficient and comply with
regulations. This will allow us to continue empowering
people in life and business and deliver on our Customer
Promise: clear and easy, anytime, anywhere and to keep
getting better.

Business transformation

We are running several programmes to unite similar
businesses and bring us closer to our overall goal of
one mobile-first digital platform offering a uniform
and superior customer experience. The main business
transformation programmes are:
• Orange Bridge, to unite Belgium and the Netherlands,
combining their strengths for a more consistent
experience, with one integrated banking platform and
a harmonised business model.
• Welcome, to digitalise ING in Germany and create a
go-to financial platform offering its own and thirdparty services.
• Model Bank, harmonising retail banking in five
European countries on one borderless, scalable
platform.
• WTOM, further digitalising and standardising
Wholesale Banking products, processes and customer
propositions across all continents.
Supporting these programmes are the target operating
models (TOMs) uniting support services globally such as
HR, Finance, IT, Procurement, and Risk, and the enablers,
the so-called foundations: IT, global data management,
process management, shared services and ING’s one
agile Way of Working (WoW).

Transformation management

Managing transformation is the task of the chief
transformation officer and the Global Transformation
Office. In early 2017, we launched a bank-wide
transformation management method with standardised
tools and processes. These include quarterly business
reviews to improve prioritisation, gated processes and
90-day delivery cycles. All are designed to ensure the
execution of our Think Forward strategy and ultimately
lead to a better impact on our customers and other
stakeholders.
Retaining our full focus on customers while running
so many programmes simultaneously is challenging
and requires transparency, discipline and a willingness
to make hard choices. Prioritising what is best for the
bank, rather than for a specific business unit or country,
can involve trade-offs in terms of local priorities and
autonomy.
Running a transformation of this scale is complex and
involves many interdependencies. Our transformation
management method helps us navigate through the
complexity, remove impediments when they arise and
re-plan, while minimising adverse impacts and keeping
the bank safe and secure. Strong governance and twoway communication about the transformation build
ownership across the bank and encourage employee
engagement.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Improving the customer experience – continued

Bleep, bleep!

Artificial intelligence (AI) in many forms will play an
important part in ING’s future. From actual robots,
like ING’s Ginger - here helping teach children
about the value of money - to machine learning,
predictive algorithms and more. This will boost the
efficiency of our digital-first model, helping it to
evolve into a true competitive advantage.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

24

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Improving the customer experience – continued

Technology

Information technology is crucial for ING’s platform
ambitions. Without IT we cannot merge our systems
and build one global platform, enable scalability and
create value for the customer in an online digital world.
It enables programmes such as ING Private Cloud, data
lakes and TouchPoint Architecture and contributes to
major strategic programmes such as Model Bank and
Welcome.
In 2017, we launched a target operating model for IT
that aims to create both scale and speed as well as cost
efficiency and growth. This is being done by moving
to one global technology platform with one common
backlog, in line with the Think Forward strategy. It will
help ING achieve consistency and collaborate globally
across all platforms and implement one agile Way of
Working.
TouchPoint Architecture (TPA) is a client-centred
approach to streamlining ING’s global IT architecture.
It moves away from focusing primarily on products to
improving the customer experience. TPA helps simplify
and standardise ING’s banking applications and supports
the creation of a modular system with fewer constraints
and limitations. This modularity is a big step towards a
globally scalable banking platform that offers customers
everywhere a consistent experience and a truly global
proposition. TPA unlocks our global scalability, leverages
innovation across the group and speeds up the time to
market and to volume. The first TPA components were
released for production in 2017.
ING Private Cloud (IPC) is ING’s global digital platform
for storing and processing data and running IT services
such as mobile phone apps. It’s the first step towards
giving customers everywhere a consistent experience
in a secure and reliable way. IPC standardises our IT
infrastructure globally, simplifies and streamlines
existing processes and centralises data storage in socalled data lakes so it is available to the right people
at the right time. ING currently runs daily services on
close to 4,000 virtual machines. The focus in 2017 was
on improving operational stability and security. We also
rolled out a number of new services to increase the
scope of IPC within ING’s infrastructure landscape.

Reliability and stability

An excellent customer experience relies on ING always
being available when and where customers need us.
Given ING’s digital ambitions, we continually strive to
improve the availability of our online channels (internet
and mobile). In 2017, ING recorded 99.7 percent
weighted system availability towards Retail customers
in the Netherlands and Belgium a . In addition, system
availability toward Wholesale customers globally was
100% a . In 2016, system availability was 99.75 percent
for Retail and Wholesale Banking customers combined.
We aim to expand our reporting on system availability in
the future.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

25

Data

A digital bank is driven by data. We use it to improve
processes and make better management decisions.
Crucially data provides meaningful customer insights to
better understand our customers and develop innovative
data-driven products that personalise and improve their
experience.
However, raw data in itself has little value. To be
meaningful, it has to be sorted, harmonised and put
into context. Global data management is therefore a
key priority to ensure the availability, quality, integrity,
usability and control and governance of our data. To
standardise our data definitions and data models,
we introduced a common data language called ING
Esperanto in 2016. Our aim is for 95 percent of our data
to be in ING Esperanto by end-2019.

Data privacy

People entrust banks with confidential information
that they expect us to keep safe. It’s of paramount
importance that we maintain that trust. We aim
to comply with our legal obligations around data
protection, which can differ from country to country.
We are transparent about what we do with the personal
data of customers, suppliers and business partners
and only process it for specific business purposes. Our
approach can be summarised as: the right people use
the right data for the right purpose.
We set up ethical committees in the ING countries in
2017 and a framework for dealing with dilemmas related
to how we use data. This could in future lead to an
ethical proposition that empowers customers to manage
their own data and gives ING a competitive advantage.
Whenever we process data for services or offers we
consider the wishes of our customers and corporate
clients. In cases where we rely on consent, the customer
can withdraw it at any time. All business units have
adopted the global data protection policy (GDPP),
which qualifies as binding corporate rules. This was
revised in 2017 to meet new EU General Data Protection
Regulation 2016/679 and will be effective from May
2018, once approved by the regulators. This regulation
increases transparency requirements and enables our
customers to be in control of their personal data. In
each business unit and at bank level, a data protection
executive is responsible for GDPP compliance and
compliance with local privacy laws. Local data protection
officers provide expertise and support.

Security

Our holistic approach to countering the complex and
constant threat of cybercrime combines prevention with
detection and rapid response. We provide e-banking
fraud awareness training for employees and clients,
which, in addition to maturing controls, has contributed
to stabilising e-banking fraud damages at low levels
across our organisation. Advanced analytics capabilities
play a key role in combatting criminal activity. Pattern
recognition and advanced algorithms help to predict and
detect, and thus prevent, fraudulent activity.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Improving the customer experience – continued

We continuously invest in our security organisation and
systems to protect our data and that of our customers.
We have created a cybercrime resilience control
environment designed to predict, protect against, detect,
respond to and mitigate e-banking fraud, distributed
denial of service (DDoS) attacks and targeted attacks.
We maintain strong global alliances with the financial
industry, law enforcement authorities, governments
and internet service providers to jointly fight cybercrime.
In September 2017, ING set up a Financial Cybercrime
Expertise & Response Team (FinancialCert) with two
other Dutch banks to jointly tackle cybercrime in the
Netherlands and share real time information for a faster
response.
ING’s responsible disclosure programme encourages
ethical hackers to report vulnerabilities they might
discover in ING’s online services.

Operational excellence

We promise customers we’ll keep getting better. One
way is by simplifying and standardising our core end-toend processes. Some processes are internal, such as for
HR and compliance, others impact customers directly,
like mortgages, lending and payments. Making them
easier will lead to a superior customer experience, higher
quality processes and greater efficiency. For example, we
are rolling out a uniform way of handling and processing
card transactions from a single hub in Poland. The
system was introduced in France in 2017, with Czech
Republic to follow in 2018.
Robotics and automisation help to eliminate waste,
reduce variability and digitalise customer journeys.
We team up with fintechs, for example to digitalise
on-boarding and certify e-signatures. In 2017, we
extended the scope and coverage of the global process
management programme launched in 2016. It helps
countries identify and share best local practices and
implement improvements. So far it has been applied
in Poland, France, Turkey and Germany, leading to
improved processes in consumer lending, SME lending
and mortgages. We also introduced a global modelling
tool to improve customer journeys from the customer
perspective.

Shared services

We’re centralising operational and IT tasks in shared
service centres. In 2017, ING set up a fully-owned service
company called ING Business Shared Services BV (IBSS).
Our shared service centres in Katowice, Bucharest,
Bratislava and Manila fall under this new entity. IBSS
teams provide deep IT and operations expertise and
apply innovations arising from our global technology
and processes-based digitalisation, robotics and artificial
intelligence. We believe this will allow us to respond
faster to customer needs, improve our capabilities and
boost the efficiency of our digital-first model, helping
it to evolve into a true competitive advantage. IT and
Wholesale Banking are among the first business units to
transfer activities to these specialist, centralised pools.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

26

Way of Working

To respond faster to changing customer demands,
encourage an innovative mindset and engage our
employees, we introduced ING’s one agile Way of
Working (WoW) in 2017. It unites our people in multidisciplinary, cross-functional teams and empowers
them to collaborate more easily across the organisation.
WoW has been introduced in the Netherlands, followed
by Poland, Romania, Austria, and the COO Finance
business unit. Belgium started working this way in
January 2018 and Germany and Wholesale Banking
are preparing to roll it out. Uniting so many different
cultures is a challenge that requires a cultural shift,
guided by our Orange Code behaviours. We organise
monthly bootcamps to train WoW ‘ambassadors’ from
the countries and business units. In 2017, these were
attended by more than 120 people.

Innovation

ING’s approach to innovation is built around making
banking more personal, instant, relevant and seamless
for customers; stimulating a culture that is open to new
ideas; and connecting and cooperating with others to
innovate faster.
Our priority is to empower customers and provide a
superior experience on open platforms connected
to others offering services beyond banking. Think of
how Uber links to Google maps and how paying for
the service at the end of the journey is seamless – an
experience that is the same in all parts of the world.
Innovations like this are disrupting traditional business
models and reinventing them for a new generation of
users.
To stay relevant banks have to innovate. Competition is
already fierce and is set to increase in 2018 when the
new European payments directive (PSD2) opens banking
up to anyone offering a financial service. Potentially
this could be a game-changer, especially if the likes of
Google, Facebook, Apple or Amazon decide to enter this
space.
It also offers opportunities for banks who have much to
learn from these newcomers. ING is doing just that by
partnering with fintechs and setting up accelerators to
develop new solutions that meet our customers’ needs
and advance our strategy.

Innovation culture

ING uses a structured process called PACE to accelerate
innovation internally. PACE is a combination of Lean
Start-up, Agile Scrum and Design Thinking methods. The
PACE Accelerator is an intensive 18-week programme
that speeds up the time to market by testing ideas for
new products and services and validating them with
customers through experimentation. In 2017, the Pace
Accelerator was active in four business units and the
ING Customer Experience Centre in Amsterdam. In 2017,
we initiated the PACE Everyday programme to teach
employees how to innovate in their daily work. It ran in
10 business units.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Improving the customer experience – continued

ING’s annual Innovation Bootcamps encourage
employees to come up with new ways to improve the
customer experience and compete for seed funding.
Almost 800 ideas from 22 countries were submitted for
the fourth edition in 2017. The winners were Banking of
Things, Covered and FlexiLiving. These three ideas will
now be further developed to test their viability.
Ideas originating from ING’s Legal team were recognised
at the 2017 FT European Innovative Lawyer Awards. The
initiatives aim to improve the Legal function, for example
by using artificial intelligence and electronic signatures.
The Innovation Fund finances concepts developed by
the business units, particularly when these can be
shared and replicated in other countries. It supported
31 initiatives in 2017. These include BuyRely, Orange
Assistant, Easy Trading Connect, Direct Lease, Startarium,
and Katana. Since 2014, the fund has financed 53 ideas
in total. In addition, the Chief Innovation Office supports
initiatives such as money management platform Yolt,
Spanish payments app Twyp and Payconiq.
Payconiq, a mobile payments app originating from ING’s
Innovation Lab and used in partnership with other banks,
is now accepted by over 35,000 merchants in Belgium. It
is fast gaining traction in the market. In August 2017, we
announced it will expand into Luxembourg and launch in
the Netherlands with several partner banks.
To speed up ING’s transformation into an innovationenabled organisation, we set up the Global Innovation
Council in early 2017. It replaces the Innovation Fund
Steering Committee. The council defines and aligns
our innovation priorities and measures our progress. In
addition, there are six local innovation councils for our
businesses in Australia, Belgium, Germany, Poland, Spain
and Wholesale Banking.

Connect and cooperate

ING works with fintechs to harness the potential of
technologies such as blockchain, data analysis and
artificial intelligence. We collaborate with specialists
on solutions that will really make banking easier. For
example, we partnered with online wealth manager
Scalable Capital to offer customers in Germany digital
investment management services, also known as roboadvice.
To deepen fintech partnerships and accelerate the pace
of innovation, we launched ING Ventures in October, a
EUR 300 million venture capital fund. It will invest mainly
in start-ups whose technologies and propositions we
can adopt or embed to move even faster. In return, they
benefit from our strong brand, extensive network and
large customer base.
At the end of 2017, ING had 139 fintech partners, 21 of
which we invested in. These include Spain’s Fintonic, a
cross-bank aggregation app with 400,000 users in Spain
and Latin America. Money management platform Yolt is
ING’s own internal fintech. Launched for testing in 2016
and released in June 2017, Yolt now has over 100,000

ING Group Annual Report 2017

27

users in the UK. It introduced new features, for example
to help users make savings on their energy bills and
international money transfers.
Other fintech partnerships include Kabbage for
instant SME lending, Cobase, a multibank platform for
corporates, Twisto for instant consumer finance and
Scalable, a so-called robo-advisor for retail customers
who want to make investments.
In 2017, we made progress in harnessing the potential
of blockchain, both with the R3 banking consortium and
in partnership with others. In November, we announced
a new collaboration to digitalise energy commodities
trading on a secure, real-time blockchain-based
platform. It is expected to be operational at end-2018.
And earlier in the year, Easy Trading Connect – a former
Innovation Bootcamp winner – successfully completed
its first commodity trade finance trial with Société
Générale and trading house Mercuria. It reduced the
time to process a transaction from three hours to 25
minutes, proving that blockchain technology can greatly
improve efficiency, lower costs and reduce risks and
delays. A soybean trade in January 2018 demonstrated
the potential of the Easy Trading Connect platform in the
agricultural commodities sector.
In the spirit of cooperation we shared a blockchain
breakthrough with the developer community as an
open source solution that others can contribute to.
ING announced in November it had developed a new
code, known as a ‘zero-knowledge range proof’ that
adds a layer of cryptography to protect the privacy of
blockchain users.
ING also has incubators where we link start-ups with
internal teams to develop ideas into viable products
and services. These incubators are in Belgium (Fintech
Village), the ING Innovation Studio at our Customer
Experience Centre (ICEC) in Amsterdam, the Innovation
Centre in Poland, as well as in Turkey and Germany.
Products that emerged from these collaborations include
Payconiq and Yolt.
Not all our collaborations lead to new products and we
have stopped 34 partnerships, mostly after unsuccessful
or unsatisfactory proofs of concept.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Our business
We grew our Wholesale and Retail Banking
customer bases in 2017, lent more to
customers and they entrusted us with more
of their savings. At the same time we made
major investments to accelerate our Think
Forward strategy and create a differentiating
customer experience. One that makes banking
clear and easy, anytime, anywhere and puts
customers in the driving seat when it comes
to their finances.
Who we are

ING’s Retail business serves 37.4 million customers.
Through the Wholesale Banking business we also serve
corporate clients and financial institutions.
Our Market Leaders businesses in the Netherlands,
Belgium and Luxembourg are mature businesses with
strong Retail and Wholesale Banking positions. Our
Challengers businesses are in Australia, Austria, the
Czech Republic, France, Germany, Italy and Spain.
Here we aim to build a full bank relationship, digitally
distributed at low cost via platforms like Model Bank,
which we are developing for several European retail
markets, and Welcome, in Germany. Our Growth Markets
businesses are those in expanding economies with
above-average growth potential: Poland, Romania and
Turkey. ING also has stakes in the Bank of Beijing (China),
TMB (Thailand) and Kotak Mahindra Bank (India).
In most retail banking markets we offer a full range of
banking products and services, covering payments,
savings, investments and secured and unsecured
lending.
For corporate clients and financial institutions we provide
specialised lending, tailored corporate finance and debt
and equity markets solutions. We also offer working
capital, payments and cash management and trade and
treasury services to help them achieve their business
goals.
More information about our Wholesale Banking services
is available at www.ingwb.com.

Differentiating experience

Our Think Forward strategy anticipated the trends
shaping our industry. We foresaw that digitalisation
would change people’s expectations about the products
and services they use. These expectations are based
on their frequent interactions online and on their
smartphones, where they connect with each other and
the brands that they love.
Companies are no different. They too expect one
seamless, cross-border, global experience and instant
processes. They are increasingly impatient with anything
that takes time. At the same time, they look for partners
ING Group Annual Report 2017

28

who can challenge them on their strategy and add real
value to their business.
If we want to remain relevant to our customers we have
to be where they are. We have to find ways to empower
them on their preferred platforms and meet their needs
with a clear and easy experience.
In 2017, we continued our journey to future-proof
our business and bring customers a differentiating
experience. This involves harmonising and streamlining
our products and processes and using advanced data
capabilities to deepen and expand our relationships
with customers. We are aiming to create a uniform
experience by uniting our businesses on digital platforms
to be a place where people can go for all their financerelated needs. And we are innovating and teaming up
with others to offer new and different services, both our
own and those of others.
We believe we are on the right track. In 2017, ING was
named the Best Bank in the World by Global Finance
magazine – recognition of our efforts to provide a truly
outstanding customer experience.

Challenging environment

Persistently low interest rates are threatening the
traditional banking business model, making it important
to develop new customer propositions that generate
new revenue streams.
On top of that, heavier capital requirements under socalled Basel IV and ever increasing regulation are pushing
down on returns. In 2017, regulatory costs were EUR 56
million higher year-on-year and made up 9.2 percent of
ING’s total underlying expenses (8.9 percent in 2016).
The new European payments directive PSD2 in 2018
will have economic repercussions. Banks will face
higher IT and security costs and a potential loss of retail
payments revenue. More importantly, PSD2 will open
up the payments market to new competitors, including
non-banks. Competition is fierce. Already we see fintechs
disrupting banking and claiming profitable parts of the
value chain that were once the sole domain of banks.
Not to mention the big tech platforms who can really
change the game for banks. Apple Pay, for example, is
gaining more than a million users a month, while China’s
Tencent (owner of WeChat) and Alibaba have banking
licences and their own online banks. To remain relevant
we need to find new revenue models, more efficient
ways of doing things, and team up with others to bring
customers a new and differentiating experience faster.

Fair pricing

With deposits at the European Central Bank already
earning negative interest rates we have to continuously
balance our customer expectations with the prices we
offer to remain profitable. To address this trade-off we
actively manage our exposure to interest rate risk and
develop new offerings at fair prices that generate feebased income.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Our business – continued

It’s a kind of magic
At ING we aim to make banking clear
and easy and as smooth as possible
for our customers. Still, customers can
run into difficulties. When they do, we
try to help with ‘acts of kindness’, like a
small payment, a gift, a toy for a child.
Either to compensate the customer
for an inconvenience from our side, or
just to assist when we know they need
a helping hand.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

29

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Our business – continued

ING is working hard to avoid being forced to implement
negative rates on retail deposits. For some time, we have
charged a negative interest rate to financial institutions
and corporate clients with high cash balances in their
euro current accounts. If the low interest environment
continues we may need to consider further action and
expand the scope of Wholesale Banking clients that will
be charged.
On the Retail side, other solutions would need to
be found, such as higher margins on lending or
implementing other fees, which could reduce market
transparency. From our point of view, none of these are
desirable because they have the potential to conflict
with customers’ expectations about fair pricing.
Charging customers a fair price for our products and
services increases their accessibility and is important for
our competitiveness in the marketplace. To ensure prices
are fair, we ask customers to rate our products and
services and provide feedback in online communities as
part of our global Product Approval and Review Process.

Knowing our customers

Data is an important asset that helps us improve
the customer experience and earn the strategically
important primary relationship. We rely on data to
understand what customers want and need. We use
these insights to personalise our customer interactions
and empower customers to make their own financial
decisions. Our customer-facing platforms offer multiple
touch points to interact with customers and collect data
that we use to define customer journeys, for example
when and where they choose to do their banking, the
device they use and the services they prefer. We test our
insights with feedback from customers to continuously
improve our services.
It is also vital that we know our customers from a
regulatory and risk perspective. But gathering the
information we need can be inconvenient for them, which
is counter-productive to a positive customer experience.
This is especially challenging when we have to approach
the same customer several times because regulations
demand that certain data is screened off internally
by Chinese walls. However, ING takes its regulatory
responsibility seriously and does not want to compromise
on compliance. Instead, we have to ensure the process is
as unobtrusive and easy as possible. We also take every
precaution to protect customer data and privacy.
Read more in the ‘Improving the customer experience’
chapter.

Primary relationships

In June 2017, ING reached its 10 millionth primary retail
customer. Earning the primary relationship is a strategic
priority and we value these relationships because they
lead to customers who are more satisfied, more loyal
and subsequently choose ING for more of their banking
needs. And the more people do with us, the more data
we can collect to understand their needs and the better
the experience we can provide using these insights: a
virtuous circle.
ING Group Annual Report 2017

30

In Retail Banking, we define primary customers as those
with multiple ING products, including a current account
into which they deposit a regular income, such as a
salary. The number of primary customers choosing ING
as their main bank is growing twice as fast as the total
number of retail customers. At the end of 2017, we had
10.8 million primary retail customers, up from 9.9 million
in 2016. The aim is to extend this by a million primary
customers a year to reach 14 million by 2020.
Wholesale Banking is also looking to grow its primary
clients. This means being their lender of choice and
having an appropriate volume of flow products in
Transaction Services, Working Capital Solutions and
Financial Markets. Industry Lending teams took a leading
role in 61 percent of transactions in 2017. While pursuing
growth, we will maintain a prudent risk profile and
diversified portfolio within our risk appetite.

Retail Banking in 2017

To continue delivering on its strategic priorities and
purpose, ING is combining its strengths in its various
retail markets and moving towards shared digital
banking platforms that will offer customers a uniform
differentiating experience and empower them to stay a
step ahead in life and in business.
We use the Net Promoter Score (NPS) to measure our
progress. Our aim is to achieve a number one NPS
ranking, with a 10-point lead over our main competitors
in each Retail Banking market. Based on a rolling average
of our NPS scores in 2017, ING was ranked number one in
seven of our 13 markets and was second in a further
four. a

Our Customer Promise

ING innovates in pursuit of a better customer experience,
both on its own and with partners. We believe this is
what attracts people to ING as their main bank and we
work hard to improve this experience and deliver on our
Customer Promise to be clear and easy, anytime and
anywhere, empower people and keep getting better.
We are also looking at services that go beyond banking
and generate alternative sources of revenue. In
Germany, for example, ING introduced Immowert2Go,
a mobile app enabling potential homeowners to find
a property’s value by submitting a photo and at the
same time apply for a mortgage. And we partnered with
online wealth manager Scalable Capital to offer retail
customers digital investment management services, also
known as robo-advice.
To keep our promise to make banking easier, we
premiered fully digital instant personal loans in
Romania, making it possible for almost 1.3 million active
customers here to obtain a personal loan in an end-toend online process that takes as little as 15 minutes.
Customers in Poland, Spain and Turkey can also get
loans instantly online without the need to submit proof
of income. Credit risk assessments are done within
minutes.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Our business – continued

And small and medium-sized businesses in France and
Italy can now get approval for a loan of up to
EUR 100,000 in just 10 minutes. The new instant online
lending platform for SMEs was developed with five
fintech partners, each covering part of the loan process.
These include Kabbage, with whom we developed
a similar offering in Spain in 2015. The new service,
launched in October, is part of our strategy to increase
lending to this customer segment.
Meanwhile Twyp Cash, which allows customers in Spain
to withdraw cash from supermarkets, petrol stations
and other merchants, continues its growth and is now
used by 275,000 customers. We extended the mobile
payment app to non-ING customers in November,
triggering approximately 20,000 downloads on the first
day.

Of course, customer experience doesn’t only have to
be digital. In Belgium, we opened the first ING branch
that feels like home, modelled on the concept unveiled
in 2016 in the Netherlands. Here customers can get
personal banking advice, have a coffee, use it as a
workplace or hold their own business or community
meetings. ING plans another 15 of these branches
by 2020. An optimised branch network supports our
digital-first ambitions. When designing Belgium’s branch
network coverage our priority was to stay close to our
customers and improve our service to make it extremely
personal and very easy. At the same time, we had to
consider a number of factors, not least the integration of
Record Bank. In places where both banks had branches
in close proximity, we chose to keep only one. The 15
planned ‘Client Houses’ will provide customers with
personal banking advice in an enjoyable environment.

Digital first

Financial empowerment

Customers are spending more time online and especially
on their smartphones. In the Netherlands, ING welcomed
its three millionth mobile app user in August 2017 and
registered 18,000 new users in one week, the highest
weekly inflow yet. This helped us exceed our initial 2017
target of 520,000 new mobile users in the Netherlands
by 15.9 percent.
Across ING, digital channels account for 98.4 percent of
contacts with retail customers (98.0 percent in 2016),
while mobile phone interactions rose 37 percent to 1.76
billion in 2017 from 1.28 billion in 2016.
We introduced several new apps in 2017 that cater to
the needs of mobile customers, who use their phones
to shop, socialise and stream content instantly and
seamlessly. In Germany, ‘Banking to go’ makes transfers
easier and more personal using touch ID and the
customer’s own five-digit pin. Developed by a GermanDutch team using existing components, the app was
tested by around 5,000 customers before going live in
May 2017. We also introduced an aggregation service
in Germany that allows customers to see all their bank
accounts on one app, also those with other banks.
In Belgium, we partnered with other banks and telecom
companies to launch Itsme, an app offering users a
digital ID that allows them to log in securely, share data
or sign documents and transactions on their phones.
In March, we debuted contactless mobile payments
in Poland. Customers here can now use their Android
smartphone to pay for goods or services via the
Moje ING mobile app. The ‘MasterCard on your phone’
service was developed in less than a year by teams
from Poland, the Netherlands and Spain with generic
components that can be used by other ING countries.
Customers in Poland can also use their mobile phones to
buy and sell currencies. They can access the ING Kantor
electronic platform via an FX module on the Moje ING
mobile app (or the ING Business app for corporates). It
makes currency transactions easy and convenient with
24/7 availability.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

31

ING wants to empower people to make the right
financial decisions and become self-reliant. This
contributes to a healthy economy and helps drive social
progress. In addition to clear and easy products and
services, anytime and anywhere, it’s about providing the
right information and tools at the right time and making
an impact in communities by giving people the skills to
become financially self-sufficient.
Take tools like our Orange Assistant in Turkey, a mobile
app that gives users more control over their money by
notifying them when a payment – or even a birthday – is
due. It can automatically transfer money, for example
to a florist to buy a gift. Users set their own customised
notifications and ‘smart actions’. The idea originated at
an earlier edition of ING’s Innovation Bootcamp. To date,
18,000 users have created nearly two million separate
notifications, for example when money enters or leaves
their account, and when their credit card statement is
ready.
In 2017, we launched the THINK website, where ING
analysts share their insights on a range of economic and
financial matters to help people make better decisions.
Turkey launched a YouTube channel in June called ‘Para
Mevzuları’ (Money Stuff). Here ING shares videos that
increase financial literacy by helping people understand
more about money, saving and finances. It attracted
44,000 subscribers and 6.5 million views in its first
month.
In Australia we launched ING Everyday Round Up – a
digital money jar for loose change that makes saving
easier and more convenient. It allows customers to
round up card purchases to the nearest dollar and moves
the difference to their savings account. The tool hit
40,000 activations within the first fortnight. It mirrors the
Smart Saver launched in Poland in 2016, an example of
sharing best practice between ING businesses.
The ING Dreamstarter programme in Australia
empowers social entrepreneurs through scholarships,
crowdfunding and grants for businesses that create a
positive change in their communities. In 2017, it had

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Our business – continued

1,701 supporters and contributed more than AUD
330,000 to 11 Dreamstarter businesses, of which over 60
percent was crowd-funded. This brings its total funding
since it started in 2014 to more than AUD 1.5 million
for 70 businesses. In 2017, Dreamstarter Gifts that Give
was initiated to encourage Australians to buy socially
responsible gifts and support Dreamstarter businesses,
which delivered product sales of over AUD 30,000 in six
weeks.
To help people who are financially excluded, ING’s
activities include offering microfinance to SME clients
in Turkey, education and research. In addition, ING
subsidiary Groenbank invested EUR 6 million in
cooperative society Oikocredit to extend financial
inclusion in Africa.
ING continued its partnership with UNICEF’s Power for
Youth to reach 335,000 adolescents in six less-developed
countries by 2018, equipping them with financial
knowledge and skills to build a brighter future.
Financial empowerment interactions with customers
and non-customers increased significantly again in
2017 and 25.4 million people said they felt financially
empowered a (23.9 million in 2016). This means we
achieved our 2020 target of reaching 25 million people.
Our new ambition is to reach 34 million people by 2022.
Why people make financial decisions
In an increasingly complex world that offers so many
choices, it’s easy for people to be overwhelmed.
ING’s Think Forward Initiative (TFI) brings together
economists and behavioural scientists to investigate
how and why people make financial decisions. It uses
its insights to develop tools that help people make
informed choices about their money. Launched in
2016 with the Centre for Economic Policy Research,
Dell/EMC, Deloitte and Dimension Data, TFI expects
its first solutions in early 2018. These include a tool
called Jaap’s money calendar to help people spend
more wisely; the MoneyMagic app motivating users to
save; and an app that uses financial data and social
media to help users make a logical decision about
whether they can afford a specific purchase, rather
than an emotional one.

Sustainable investments

We can help our customers contribute to a more
sustainable world through sustainable investing. We
select companies whose activities consider people,
society and the environment. They preferably offer
solutions for the sustainability challenges our world
faces. We believe these companies will outperform on
return and impact in the long term.
Our assessment excludes companies in specific sectors,
such as coal mining, or that exhibit controversial
behaviour, such as violations of human rights.
ING has provided customers with sustainable investment
solutions (SI) since 1999. These can be dedicated
ING Group Annual Report 2017

32

portfolios, structured products or investment funds, and
cover all asset classes. SI is available to customers in
Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany and the Netherlands.
At the end of 2017, sustainable assets under
management (SAuM) were EUR 4.75 billion. This
represents 3.75 percent of ING’s total assets under
management.
Read more about Sustainable Assets under
Management in the ‘Non-financial appendix’.

Awards

ING’s digital leadership and focus on innovation and
customer experience have been recognised externally
with awards in several Retail markets. These include Best
Brand of the Year 2017 in Luxembourg. ING in Poland
collected Global Finance magazine’s Digital Bank of
Distinction award for the mid-corps segment, while in
Romania ING was named the Most Innovative Bank for
the second year running at the MasterCard Bank of the
Year gala. In Germany, ING was rated Most Popular Bank
for the 11th consecutive year by readers of business
magazine €uro and Interhyp as the Best Mortgage
Provider for the 12th time in a row. And in France, ING
was the only financial institution to win the Excellence
Client Prize, awarded to companies providing a great
customer experience.

Financial performance in 2017

Retail Banking recorded a strong set of 2017 results.
Net profit rose to EUR 3,363 million from EUR 2,671
million in 2016, when result was negatively affected
by the restructuring charges related to the digital
transformation programmes announced in October
2016. Underlying net result (excluding special items) rose
2.1 percent to EUR 3,363 million from EUR 3,294 million
in 2016. The underlying result before tax increased
3.1 percent to EUR 4,722 million in 2017.
The higher pre-tax result was driven by lower risk costs,
reflecting positive economic conditions in most markets.
Underlying income increased slightly as higher net
interest income and strong fee income (supported by
continued volume growth and a bigger retail customer
base), was largely offset by a decline in investment and
other income due to lower one-offs and volatile items
(2016 included a EUR 200 million gain on the sale of Visa
shares and higher revenues from Bank Treasury).
Customer lending increased by EUR 9.4 billion to EUR
398.9 billion compared with a year ago. Adjusted for
currency impacts and excluding Bank Treasury and
the WestlandUtrecht Bank (WUB) run-off portfolio, net
growth in Retail’s core lending book was EUR 14.2 billion.
Net customer deposits (also excluding Bank Treasury and
currency impacts) grew by EUR 17.9 billion in 2017.
Underlying operating expenses increased 2.1 percent
compared with 2016. Excluding regulatory costs,
expenses were up 1.8 percent, mainly related to strategic
projects and selective business growth in the Retail
Challengers & Growth Markets, and higher expenses in
Retail Belgium after the one-off expense adjustment
in 2016. These increases were largely offset by lower
expenses in Retail Netherlands supported by the benefits

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Our business – continued

from the ongoing cost-saving initiatives. The underlying
cost/income ratio increased to 56.9 percent from
56.0 percent in 2016.

external staff expenses related to the transformation
programmes and the EUR -95 million one-off expense
adjustment in 2016.

Market Leaders

Risk costs dropped by EUR 71 million to EUR 104 million,
or 30 basis points of average risk-weighted assets. The
decrease was fully in business lending, while risk costs
for mortgages and consumer lending were broadly
stable.

Retail Netherlands

The underlying result before tax of Retail Netherlands
rose 31.6 percent to EUR 2,243 million from EUR 1,705
million in 2016. This was due to lower risk costs and the
benefits from cost-saving initiatives, while income was
slightly up supported by higher commission income.
Underlying income rose 0.7 percent to EUR 4,468 million.
The interest result was 1.2 percent lower, mainly caused
by a decline in lending volumes and margin pressure
on current accounts, partly offset by higher margins on
savings. More than holf of the fall in lending volumes
was due to a further decline in the WUB run-off portfolio,
including the continued transfer of WUB mortgages to
NN Group. Net core lending (excluding the WUB portfolio
and Bank Treasury-related products) declined by EUR
2.5 billion, primarily in mortgages, whereas the decline
in other lending was limited. Net customer deposits
(excluding Bank Treasury) grew by EUR 4.6 billion.
Commission income rose by EUR 55 million, or 10.1
percent, primarily in current account fees. Investment
and other income was up EUR 20 million.
Underlying operating expenses declined 13.6 percent on
2016, mainly driven by the benefits from the cost-saving
initiatives, while 2016 included additional provisioning
for Dutch SME clients with interest rate derivatives and
higher restructuring costs.
Risk costs declined to EUR 13 million, or 3 basis points
of average risk-weighted assets, from EUR 171 million in
2016, reflecting the positive economic conditions in the
Netherlands and strong housing market.

Retail Belgium

Retail Belgium includes Record Bank and ING in
Luxembourg. The underlying result before tax of Retail
Belgium fell 18.3 percent to EUR 785 million in 2017,
compared with EUR 961 million in 2016. The decline
mainly reflects lower net interest income and higher
expenses, partly offset by lower risk costs and increased
fee income.
Underlying income decreased to EUR 2,473 million from
EUR 2,573 million in 2016. The interest result declined
4.9 percent to EUR 1,842 million, mainly due to lower
margins on savings and current accounts, and lower
pre-payment and renegotiation fees on mortgages;
this was partly offset by volume growth in lending. The
net production in customer lending (excluding Bank
Treasury) was EUR 4.7 billion, of which EUR 3.2 billion
was in mortgages and EUR 1.5 billion in other lending.
The net inflow in customer deposits was EUR 1.4 billion
compared with year-end 2016. Commission income rose
6.0 percent, predominantly higher investment product
fees. Investment and other income fell by EUR 29 million,
as 2016 included a gain on the sale of Visa shares.
Operating expenses rose by EUR 146 million, or
10.2 percent to EUR 1,584 million, mainly due to higher
ING Group Annual Report 2017

33

Challengers & Growth Markets
Retail Germany

Retail Germany includes Interhyp and ING in Austria.
The underlying result before tax decreased 17.6 percent
to EUR 869 million, compared with EUR 1,055 million
in 2016. The decrease was primarily caused by higher
expenses; income was slightly lower, whereas risk costs
resulted in a net release.
Underlying income decreased slightly to EUR 1,891
million in 2017 from EUR 1,923 million in 2016, when it
was supported by a gain on the sale of Visa shares. Net
interest income rose 0.9 percent following continued
business growth, partly offset by lower interest margins
on most products. The net production in customer
lending (excluding Bank Treasury and movement in the
mortgage hedge) was EUR 2.7 billion, of which EUR 1.7
billion was in mortgages and EUR 1.0 billion in consumer
lending. Net inflow in customer deposits (excluding
Bank Treasury) was EUR 3.8 billion in 2017. Commission
income rose 17.5 percent to EUR 215 million, with
investment products as one of the key drivers.
Investment and other income was EUR 79 million lower,
mainly due to negative hedge results and the
EUR 44 million gain on the sale of Visa shares in 2016.
Operating expenses increased 16.5 percent to EUR 1,032
million, from EUR 886 million in 2016. In addition to EUR
30 million higher regulatory costs, this increase was
mainly due to a higher headcount to support business
growth, higher costs related to the acquisition of
primary customers and investments in strategic projects
(including the Welcome transformation programme).
Risk costs were EUR -10 million in 2017 (compared
with EUR -18 million in 2016), reflecting a benign credit
environment in the German market and model updates
for consumer lending and overdrafts.

Retail Other

Retail Other consists of the other Challenger countries
& Growth Markets, including the stakes in Asia. The
underlying result before tax decreased 3.8 percent to
EUR 825 million in 2017, from EUR 858 million in 2016,
which was supported by a EUR 109 million gain on the
sale of Visa shares.
Total underlying income increased by EUR 169 million, or
5.9 percent, to EUR 3,028 million. Excluding the gain on
Visa shares in 2016, underlying income grew by
10.1 percent. This increase was driven by strong
commercial results across most countries. Net interest
income rose 15.7 percent to EUR 2,437 million due
to continued volume growth and higher margins on

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Our business – continued

lending, partly offset by lower margins on savings and
current accounts. The net production (excluding currency
effects and Bank Treasury) in customer lending was
EUR 9.3 billion, of which EUR 5.1 billion was in mortgages
and EUR 4.2 billion in other lending (mainly consumer
loans). The net production in customer deposits was
EUR 8.1 billion. Commission income rose 20.0 percent
on the back of continued client and volume growth
in most countries. Investment and other income was
significantly lower, as the previous year included a
EUR 109 million gain on Visa shares, but also a
EUR 32 million gain from the reduction of ING’s stake in
Kotak Mahindra Bank.
Operating expenses increased by EUR 196 million, or
11.4 percent, to EUR 1,919 million. This increase was
mainly due to increased staff and marketing expenses
in most countries to support business, as well as higher
investments for strategic projects.
The addition to the provision for loan losses was
EUR 284 million, or 58 basis points of average riskweighted assets, compared with EUR 278 million, or
57 basis points, in 2016. The slight increase was mainly
attributable to higher risk costs in Poland, Spain and (to a
lesser extent) Australia, partly offset by declines in Italy
and Turkey.

Wholesale Banking in 2017

Wholesale Banking is an important contributor to
the success of ING’s Think Forward strategy. Over
the past five years, Wholesale Lending assets have
grown by more than 30 percent and pre-tax results by
more than 70 percent. We expect lending growth to
continue as we support clients in their business needs.
To better anticipate on these needs we will increase
our investments in our data-analytic capabilities and
strengthen our research coverage to help clients stay
ahead of their competition. And we will support them in
becoming more sustainable.

InsideBusiness

We extended the InsideBusiness platform to Russia,
Ukraine and Poland. It is now used by around 12,500
business clients in 20 European countries, compared
to fewer than 500 in 2016. Clients can access their
Wholesale products and services via a single log-in,
making banking clear and easy and simplifying and
streamlining the IT landscape. New services added to
InsideBusiness in 2017 include fingerprint login for the
iOS and Android app and digital signatures for service
request documents. It also offers electronic mark-tomarket reports for 4,000 Financial Markets clients; gives
clients the ability to draw down on loans and to manage
proof of payments and incoming direct debits, as well as
make digital Trade Finance transactions in Belgium and
the Netherlands.

The future of Wholesale Banking is about clients and
their experience. It’s all about what they want: advice,
data driven insights, sector knowledge. We already took
steps in this direction in 2017 and will take it further in
2018 with a new organisational structure that supports
a client-led approach, using data and technology to
anticipate clients’ needs and move to seamless and fast
processes for a truly differentiating experience.

Virtual cash management

Through the Wholesale Banking Target Operating Model
(Wholesale TOM) we have made progress towards a
digital, streamlined and simplified organisation. But with
so many newcomers entering this space and disrupting
our core business, we realised we need to do more. In
2017, we redefined our short-term priorities and further
united our business across regions and countries to
collaborate more effectively, innovate faster and bring
clients uniform services and relevant, proven solutions
through their preferred channel, while moving to open
banking platforms.

We are also preparing to launch Cobase, an independent
ING venture offering companies a multi-bank platform
with a single point of access to all their bank accounts
and financial services from all their providers, not
only ING. It includes a central payments hub, cash
management and treasury modules.

Among other things, we will strengthen our sector focus
and international network, putting more resources into
Asia and the Americas. We are also strengthening our
advisory functions including core banking services, such
as Debt Capital Markets and Corporate Finance, and
will enhance and further integrate our daily banking
propositions, such as payments and cash management,
trade finance, working capital solutions, overdraft and FX
transactions.
In support of these changes, we will roll out ING’s one
agile Way of Working across Wholesale Banking.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

34

In the third quarter, ING introduced virtual bank accounts
that allow treasurers to manage their cash across
borders from a single bank account. Other virtual cash
management products involve multiple virtual accounts.
ING’s solution gives treasurers full insight, access and
control of their company’s cash position and enhances
strategic decision-making.

Blockchain

Innovation is integral to ING’s ambitions and
technological advances such as blockchain continue to
lead to new products and product improvements. Being
a big organisation, ING’s size can work against it when
speed is of the essence. That’s why we also team up
with others – start-ups and fintechs – to innovate from
the outside in. These include collaborations with the
banking consortium R3 and others to digitalise trade and
commodity finance on a blockchain platform, as well
as using blockchain to process foreign exchange trades
and Trade Finance transactions. ING is also working with
R3 and HQLAx on a digital assets exchange to manage
liquidity more effectively and cost efficiently.
In February, our Easy Trading Connect blockchain
prototype carried out its first live oil trade, which showed
the significant speed, cost and risk benefits of the
technology. In January 2018, the platform was extended

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Our business – continued

to agricultural commodities, with a US-China soybean
trade demonstrating its potential in a sector with
complex and rigorous documentation chain flows.
In November, ING announced a breakthrough to protect
the privacy of users in the blockchain. The new code,
known as a ‘zero-knowledge range proof’ adds a layer
of cryptography that is 10 times more efficient than
existing technologies. In the spirit of cooperation, ING
has made it available as an open-source solution,
allowing other developers to contribute to it.

Climate Leaders Alliance, an informal network of CEOs
committed to climate action and delivering on the Paris
Agreement.
Client classification1,3,5
Industry ESG leaders

Climate finance

In addition to harnessing new technologies, we are also
looking at developing services that go beyond banking.
For example, we’re working with behavioural scientists
in London and Amsterdam to develop a cybersecurity
solution for corporate clients. The ING Digital Trust tool
aims to modify the behaviour of the client’s employees
– usually a key vulnerability when it comes to protecting
companies’ digital information – through a series of
‘gamification’ campaigns. It is currently being tested by
three clients and will be available in 1Q2018.

Social impact finance

Although ING’s own operations have been climate
neutral for a decade, we can make our biggest
contribution to a sustainable future through financing.
We are committed to better understanding the impact
of our lending activities and working with our clients
to drive progress towards a low-carbon and self-reliant
society.
We aim to double our funding to companies and sectors
that are helping to keep global warming below two
degrees Celsius. We will do this by increasing our Climate
Finance portfolio two-fold by 2022 compared to 2017.
This includes funding projects that advance renewable
energy, the circular economy and help combat climate
change. We will also double our Social Impact finance by
lending to projects that lead to, for example, affordable
housing or basic infrastructure. And we will double
lending to environmental, social and governance (ESG)
industry leaders by 2022 compared to 2017.
These ambitions replace the former Sustainable
Transitions Financed (STF) portfolio ambition to increase
STF to EUR 35 billion by 2020. As we already came close
to achieving this in 2016, we matured and strengthened
our approach in 2017. The result is our responsible
finance portfolio, which transparently demonstrates
our contribution through financing to key social and
environmental domains.
But we can’t do this alone. We need clients and key
partnerships. For example, we work with the Ellen
MacArthur Foundation, a global thought leader on
the circular economy, to expand our knowledge and
network on this topic and unlock business opportunities.
And we are a member of the World Economic Forum’s
ING Group Annual Report 2017

35

% of Total 2017

5.5

3.4%

Type of transactions2,3,4,5

Drawing on our data capabilities to bring clients the right
solutions at the right time, we are working on one that
analyses data from past bond trades to price trades
accurately in real time.

Responsible finance

EUR bln

EUR bln

% of Total 2017

14.6

9%

EUR bln

% of Total 2017

0.5

0.3%

Type of transactions2,3,4,5

1 The outcomes are based on industry classifications of ESG ratings
provider Sustainalytics.
2 If criteria are strengthened, the new criteria are applied from
the moment they are implemented. Outcomes of transactions
finalised prior to such changes remain ‘as is’ at the time they were
completed.
3 The amounts reported under the three categories may overlap
with one another. For example, a transaction may be both
environmentally and socially impactful. The category Outstandings
should not be added up.
4 A list of sub-categories that are in scope of the methodology/
definition but that have zero-to-low exposure can be found in the
non-financial appendix.
5 All figures listed in Outstandings are as of 4Q 2017 and the
denominator is WB lending services.

In 2017, ING joined the Madaster circular economy
platform, which has a digital ‘materials passport’ to
stimulate the use of recyclable materials and reduce
waste.
ING Real Estate teamed up with ING Groenbank on
a green loan to convert a former power plant into a
sustainable ‘A’ energy label innovation hub. And we
helped finance one of Australia’s largest solar plants
to meet the country’s growing demand for renewable
energy.
In Austria, ING teamed up with Kommunalkredit, a
specialist bank for infrastructure financing, on a EUR 300
million social covered bond to support projects such as
schools, universities, hospitals and social housing. It’s the
first of its kind in Austria and the second social covered
bond in the market.
It’s not just technology that drives innovation. ING works
closely with clients to find sustainable solutions for
the challenges they face and to put our sustainability
ambitions into action. In 2017, we collaborated on
several sustainable financing firsts: the first loan
linking the interest rate to the client’s sustainability
performance and rating (the better the company does
on sustainability, the lower the interest rate); the first
green hybrid bond ever, raising EUR 1 billion to fund wind
energy in the Netherlands and Germany; and the UK’s
first green bond in the public utilities sector (water).

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Our business – continued

Since it was introduced in April for Philips, the
Sustainable Improvement Loan has won several awards
and has been used with other clients, such as Belgian
post operator bpost.

Challenges and opportunities

In addition to investing billions of euros in wind farms,
solar energy and geothermal power production to
support the energy transition, ING will not only stop
providing lending services to new coal-fired power plants
or coal mines but will also accelerate the reduction of
financing to thermal-coal power generation with the
ambition of bringing this close to zero by 2025. We
reduced our lending outstanding for thermal coal power
generation by 18 percent at the end of 2017 compared
to a year ago and have the ambition to continue this
reduction trend.
Read more in the ‘Non-financial appendix’ for the full
power generation portfolio disclosure.

However, society still relies on fossil fuels because there
is not yet enough renewable energy being generated,
nor is there an efficient and affordable way of storing it.
This is both a challenge and an opportunity, for example
for companies developing battery technology. ING
engages in strategic dialogue with clients to influence
change. We talk about the challenges they face and help
them identify opportunities.
We see opportunities arising from the final
recommendations of the G20 global Taskforce on
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We believe
it will encourage investors to shift to more low-carbon
and climate-smart options as companies become more
transparent about reporting on the financial implications
of climate change – an important step towards delivering
on the commitments of the Paris Agreement to keep
global warming below two degrees Celsius.
Read more in the ‘Non-financial appendix’ for an
overview of ING’s climate-related disclosures.

Strengthening our operations

In the past years, the Wholesale TOM programme
has contributed to a more integrated business, easier
processes and a more consistent experience for clients
on a global digital platform.
It has united operational services in two strategic centres
in Bratislava and Manila, supporting our ambition
to improve and standardise Wholesale Banking. For
example, we now offer Financial Markets clients collateral
management services from one hub that provides a
single unified offering. This consolidation of expertise
enables us to test new artificial intelligence and robotics
solutions to optimise client services. For example, we
are preparing to launch ING’s first Wholesale Banking
chatbot – called Bill – on InsideBusiness. And we are
working with fintech Axyon.AI on a tool that applies
neural networks to make financial predictions. We will
invest even more in automation and robotics to make
processes faster and smoother in the future.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

36

Migrating certain services to shared service centres is not
new to ING, but it is time consuming and can potentially
disrupt our service, contrary to our Customer Promise.
We do it because, in the long term, it means we keep
getting better. We believe it will allow us to respond
faster to new client needs, improve IT capabilities and
boost the efficiency of our digital-first model, helping it
to evolve into a true competitive advantage.
We are also introducing a global operating model for
Lending Services. Implementing the advanced funding
model in Singapore and Hong Kong in the second half of
the year changed the Asian funding model and led to
a EUR 3.5 million reduction in funding cost on the Asia
portfolio.
In addition, we increased global collaboration with
virtual sector teams that support clients across countries
and products to offer holistic, integrated solutions
that enable them to stay a step ahead in business. To
facilitate this collaborative approach even further we are
rolling out one way of working based on Agile principles.

Awards

In 2017, ING was named best Benelux brokerage
house at the Extel awards for the European equities
investment industry. A market survey by FI Metrix (‘2017
International Commodity Traders Study’) showed ING
has become a dominant provider in commodity finance,
based on its image (55 percent of respondents rated it
the most positive brand image in the market compared
to 24 percent in 2013), institutional performance,
relationship penetration, product market share and
delivery. Overall, league table positions in EMEA and
Western Europe continued their upward trend in 2017,
supported by continued strong performance in Industry
Lending.

International network

One of ING’s strengths is our international Wholesale
Banking network, which spans over 40 countries in
Europe, Asia and the Americas. In 2017, we broadened
our relationship with clients in Asia and expanded our
Americas footprint with an office in Bogota, Colombia.
This is in line with our decision announced in November
2017 to put more emphasis on the regions while shifting
our focus to a stronger sector organisation from the
current largely product-based orientation. In the past
years, ING has grown into a sector specialist in lending
areas such as Metals and Mining, Trade and Commodity
Finance and Technology, Media and Telecom. Our new
structure will help us deliver a consistent client approach
across the Americas, Asia and Europe and become even
more relevant to our clients as we support them in their
business needs. These organisational changes will be
implemented in January 2018.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Our business – continued

Financial performance in 2017

Wholesale Banking posted good 2017 results on the back
of continued strong performance in Industry Lending,
steady volume growth across industries and products,
and a low level of risk costs. The net result rose to
EUR 1,950 million from EUR 1,754 million in 2016, which
included restructuring charges and impairments related
to the digital transformation programmes. Excluding
these charges, underlying net result rose by
EUR 47 million, or 2.5 percent, to EUR 1,950 million.
The underlying result before tax was EUR 2,846 million,
up 6.7 percent from 2016, driven by income growth in
Industry Lending and General Lending & Transaction
Services, and lower risk costs. This was in part offset by
higher expenses.
Industry Lending posted an underlying result before tax
of EUR 1,966 million, up 13.2 percent compared with
2016, due to continued business growth in Structured
Finance and Real Estate Finance with attractive margins,
higher fee income and lower risk costs. The underlying
result before tax from General Lending & Transaction
Services rose 22.5 percent to EUR 751 million, due
to higher income and lower risk costs. Income was
supported by volume growth in Working Capital
Solutions and General Lending, partly offset by some
pressure on margins.
Financial Markets’ underlying result before tax fell to
EUR 82 million from EUR 134 million in 2016. This decline
was mainly due to higher expenses, in part due to higher
regulatory costs and investments in IT infrastructure.
Income was stable, despite a very weak fourth quarter
in 2017. Excluding CVA/DVA impacts (EUR -36 million in
2017 versus EUR -71 million in 2016) income declined
by EUR 34 million. The underlying result before tax of
Bank Treasury & Other fell to EUR 47 million from EUR
185 million in 2016. In addition to lower Bank Treasury
results, this decline was mainly caused by higher risk
costs (primarily related to the Italian lease run-off
portfolio) and some litigation provisions. This was partly
offset by higher sale results in the run-off businesses,
including a EUR 97 million gain on the sale of an equity
stake in the real estate run-off portfolio.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

37

Underlying income of Wholesale Banking increased
5.6 percent to EUR 5,922 million, compared with
2016, driven by volume growth in lending and the
aforementioned gain on the sale of an equity stake.
Wholesale Banking’s net core lending book (adjusted
for currency impacts and excluding Bank Treasury and
the Lease run-off portfolio) grew by EUR 12.7 billion in
2017. The net inflow in customer deposits (excluding
currency impacts and Bank Treasury) was EUR 1.1
billion. The interest result rose 3.9 percent on 2016,
whereas commission income increased by 10.5 percent.
Investment and other income was EUR 64 million higher,
driven by the gain on the sale of an equity stake.
Underlying operating expenses increased 8.6 percent to
EUR 2,792 million, mainly due to higher headcount to
support business growth, increased additions to litigation
provisions and higher regulatory costs.
Risk costs declined to EUR 284 million, or 19 basis points
of average risk-weighted assets, from EUR 368 million,
or 24 basis points in 2016. The relatively low risk costs
in 2017 were supported by several larger net releases
for clients and only a few larger new additions, and was
realised despite higher risk costs for the Italian lease
run-off portfolio.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Our people
Banking is changing. Customers are changing.
And so is ING and its people. ING’s response
to change starts with the acceleration of
the Think Forward strategy. From a people
perspective, we are stepping up our leadership
capabilities and strengthening professional
skills while building engagement and
capabilities across the organisation.
We do this in two ways: by creating a differentiating
employee experience, and by developing greater leaders
and better managers who will energise and engage
others to implement our purpose and strategy.
In this chapter, we outline our people strategy with
employee stories depicting the changing face of ING.

Who we are

ING has over 54,000 employees in more than 40
countries. ING people are diverse and dynamic,
adapting and developing in line with the business and
our environment. Traditional banking skills are still
important, but so is customer intelligence and being
data and technology savvy. Our people are creating a
differentiating customer experience that doesn’t always
depend on face-to-face interaction.
At ING we value diversity and believe we cannot
implement our strategy without it. We are committed to
accelerating diversity so our employee base mirrors the
clients we serve.
ING has a diversity manifesto that applies to all
employees worldwide. It sets out our position and aims
to foster an inclusive culture.

Challenges in diversity

Different diversity challenges exist in each location and
business unit. In several markets, such as the Benelux,
we need to do more to make gender balance more
representative, in particular in leadership positions. ING,
like many other financial organisations, is facing this
challenge.
This year, the number of female managers and female
managers of managers remained fairly stable. Of our
managers, 39 percent are women (38 percent in 2016)
while for managers of managers, 29 percent are female
– the same as in 2016.
Creating a better balance continues to be a priority.
A range of initiatives to promote the inclusion of
women in leadership positions has been implemented.
This includes:
• Diverse interview and decision panels as part of the
recruitment process.
• Inclusion of more female candidates on
succession lists.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

38

• Tracking and analysing the number of female
appointments, promotions and leavers to gain more
insight into problems and potential solutions.
• Supporting flexible working.
‘Papa’ leave and rainbow families
In 2017, ING in the Netherlands announced that, from
2018, it will offer new fathers and non-biological
parents the right to take one month’s paid leave
after the arrival of their child with the option for a
further three months of unpaid leave immediately
afterwards.
ING also introduced the global Rainbow Families
project to eliminate any gaps in its policies for lesbian,
gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) employees.
In October, ING was recognised externally for its LGBT
workplace inclusion at the Workplace Pride Awards,
achieving a top-tier score.

How we work

Creating a differentiating employee experience starts
with ING’s distinctive culture: entrepreneurial, open,
collaborative, innovative and energetic. Who we are and
how we work are set out in the Orange Code. Putting
‘integrity above all’, it comprises:
• Our values. The non-negotiable promises we make to
the world no matter what.
• We are honest.
• We are responsible.
• We are prudent.
• Our behaviours. The commitments we make to each
other and the standards by which we measure each
other’s performance:
• You take it on and make it happen.
• You help others to be successful.
• You are a step ahead.
A worldwide survey conducted amongst ING colleagues
in the third quarter showed that 100 percent of
employees were aware of the Orange Code and 82
percent of employees felt equipped to live up to it.
The Orange Code is supported by a compliments
tool, kudos, that allows employees to give each other
compliments based on Orange Code behaviours. Since
its launch in July 2016, over 200,000 compliments
have been given by 30,000+ users of the tool. Kudos
was also named Innovation of the Year at the Digital
Communication Awards 2017.
Employees are introduced to the Orange Code early
with new joiners invited to complete a global online
e-learning introduction module that explains more about
ING’s culture, how we work and what we expect from
employees. This is further emphasised and reinforced by
the compulsory e-learning for all employees as part of
the global Promoting Integrity Programme.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Our people – continued

Our Orange Code behaviours are included within the
performance management process and discussed
throughout the year. They are also linked to our
Employee Value Proposition, which forms the basis of all
people-related programmes. Through these activities,
our aim is to develop a culture that is focused on longterm value creation.

Creating a differentiating employee
experience

ING believes there is a direct link between employee
engagement, business performance and an ability to
serve customers. It’s why we are committed to a positive
employee experience from the moment someone
applies for a job to the moment they leave.
Employees take personal responsibility for becoming
the very best they can be. Our approach to performance
management supports this. In 2017, 99 percent
of employees took part in a formal performance
management process.
Our ING Step up Performance Management practice
aims to empower employees and make them more
personally accountable for their own development
and performance. From 1 January 2018, more than
90 percent of employees will have their performance
managed according to the new approach.
ING allocates a budget for employees for training,
professional development and personal development.
We spent EUR 76 million on training and development
in 2017. And a wide range of global and local training
programmes are made available to strengthen
employee capabilities and help them become the best
they can be.

Global surveys

ING regularly measures employee engagement and is
committed to acting upon employee suggestions. This is
done globally in one of two ways:
• The Winning Performance Culture (WPC) survey
concentrates on employee engagement, looking at
how engaged, enabled and energised employees feel.
The next WPC will take place in 2018.
• The Organisational Health Index (OHI) assesses ING’s
ability to adapt and renew itself to be successful in the
long run. The last OHI took place at the end of 2017.
Over 29,000 (53 percent of employees) responded to the
OHI. Results were very positive overall with organisational
health having improved across all nine ‘health outcomes’.
This places ING’s organisational health in the upper
quartile of a large cross-industry benchmark. We have
improved considerably in innovation and learning, which
now scores in the top 10 percent of the benchmark.

Creating greater leaders and better
managers

Think Forward Leadership programmes have been tailormade to develop the leadership capabilities ING needs
to achieve its strategy. The Think Forward Leadership
Programme is designed for top-level executives and the
Think Forward Leadership Experience is for all people
ING Group Annual Report 2017

39

managers globally. Around 1,500 leaders and managers
attended these programmes in 2017, with a further
4,000 employees targeted to participate in 2018. Phasetwo programmes are now being developed.
The International Talent Programme (ITP) is designed to
ensure the bank has the right talent in the right place to
meet future needs. The programme selects and develops
top graduates who are ambitious, international and have
high growth potential. In 2017, ING recruited 135 ITP
trainees from 14 countries.

People planning for the future

Like all companies, ING needs to plan its future resource
needs carefully to stay a step ahead. This means
that occasionally we restructure activities in line with
business requirements, in some instances leading to
job losses, job changes or job location changes. In
October 2016, we announced plans to start a path of
convergence towards one digital banking platform,
which would impact around 7,000 employees, mostly
in Belgium and the Netherlands. These transformation
programmes are ongoing.
As part of this, ING also continues to look at different
ways to help improve operational processes across
the bank so that it can service client demands rapidly
and efficiently. Sometimes this means activities are
transferred to shared service centres, for example
in Bratislava or Bucharest, or outsourced to external
providers. This is not new for ING, having already
standardised and streamlined some Wholesale Banking
and IT operations. Such decisions are always made
with the utmost care and consideration with a full risk
assessment process undertaken at Management
Board level.
When employees are impacted by these changes, we are
committed to treating them with respect and care and
doing our utmost to help them develop their skills to find
new job opportunities – whether inside or outside ING.
At the same time, in line with business strategy, we
continually work to improve people planning. We
are developing our people analytics and intelligence
capabilities to aid business performance and employee
well-being. A project to transform HR – HR Unite – (HR
TOM) includes introducing a new people services
organisation with one global HR system and one
standard set of processes for people metrics. This will
concentrate on ensuring a differentiating employee
experience as well as making it much easier to report
strategically on people issues ING-wide.

Commitment to human rights

ING upholds the rights proclaimed in the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights and aims to respect human
rights in all operations globally. We uphold freedom of
association for all employees and recognise the right
to collective bargaining as laid down by International
Labour Organisation Convention numbers 87 and 98.
Where countries have weaker labour laws, ING abides
by its own human rights policy developed in accordance
with this convention.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Our people – continued

ING seeks to judge employees only on their merit and
skills. Our policy is not to discriminate on social origin,
gender, age, background, sexual orientation, physical
ability or religious beliefs.
We are aware that even though we have a strong track
record, there are still issues that require attention –
including diversity, which continues to be a challenge.
By respecting human rights and increasing efforts in
diversity, we believe we are strengthening our workforce
and our business. To underline our commitments and
progress in this area, we aim to publish our first Human
Rights Report in 2018.

The customer care specialist
Name: Bella Ozegovic
Country: Australia
Joined ING: 2015
Role: Customer care
specialist.

I joined ING fresh out of high school after a friend who
worked there recommended it to me. She loved the job
and the company.
Initially, I worked in the contact centre, but moved to
ING’s new Customer Lounge when it opened in August.
Here I assist clients with their new or existing Orange
Everyday savings, mortgage and business accounts.
ING’s working culture is customer-orientated with a
strong team dynamic. Everyone is happy to help and I
feel comfortable with my colleagues. It is a positive and
healthy environment. In my two years, I’ve had many
trainings and been given much support and mentoring
from more senior employees.
From day-one, the Orange Code has been at the core of
my job. To me it’s about the way teams work together,
allowing everyone to participate in meetings without
judgment.
Honesty and trust are very important in my job. I think
it’s important to be authentic with a customer, especially
when selling products. Obviously it’s the main role of
my job, but I really do enjoy helping a customer. It’s a
great feeling being able to fix something that somebody
is stressed about. Conversely, it can be very frustrating
when there are processes and procedures in place that a
customer is not happy with, but policies and procedures
are there for a reason and it’s not always something we
can change.

The IT specialist
Name: Alejandro Enrique
Romero Jiménez
Country: Spain
Joined ING: 2006
Role: IT specialist,
currently leading the
infrastructure chapter
for Model Bank.
When I first looked to join ING in Spain I knew it was
different from any other bank. It seemed to be driven by
young people trying to challenge the status quo. That
made me want to become part of it.
We create the underlying infrastructure for the Model
Bank transformation programme. We make sure that
from a technical and operational standpoint everything
goes smoothly when the newly-installed solutions are
integrated with existing ones.
Our team in Madrid has more than 12 different
nationalities, so it’s very diverse. To me, diversity is not
about gender or colour but about different approaches.
The way people are brought up in different cultures and
with different values means they approach the same
problem or topic in different ways.
The global surveys that all employees are asked to
complete are important, especially the fact that
managers want to know what we think. In Spain, a
number of improvements have been made following the
last year’s employee engagement survey. It’s good to
know your opinion counts.

The chief economist
Name: Marieke Blom
Country: The Netherlands
Joined ING: 2013
Role: Chief economist for
ING in the Netherlands.
Manages a team of 18
economists and analysts.

ING found me four years ago. I came to the interview
heavily pregnant. Combining work with children is not
easy but ING is flexible enough to help me make it work.
I have Wednesday afternoons off and bring my kids
to school four days a week. I make up the time in the
evening, sometimes weekends.
I’ve always liked the atmosphere here. People are goalorientated, but in a good way. They strive to make a
difference. So much work gets done.
Change is the norm. We’re in a constant state of flux. It
can be a challenge managing that. Clients are continually

ING Group Annual Report 2017

40

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Our people – continued

changing too. As a team, we must adapt to those client
changes. Part of our economic analysis is to make things
clear and easy even though economics is complex.

The graduate
Name: Simon Dispa
Country: Belgium
Joined ING: 2016
Role: Member of the
Retail Transformation
Programme.

What gives me the most satisfaction is how our
economic analysis leads to decision-making for clients.
Our challenge is to help customers make better decisions
so that they can stay ahead in what they do.
What frustrates me is we’re a part of a big organisation.
Sometimes it takes a great deal of time and internal
processes to produce what we do. The end result is high
quality and immediately has a big impact, but it does
take a long time to get there.
Aside from the Think Forward leadership programme
and the various trainings I do as part of my goals for the
year, I completed the Promoting Integrity Programme,
a compulsory online training to increase awareness
around integrity and dilemmas. Every Dutch employee
is also required to take the Banker’s Oath, committing to
maintain high standards of ethical behaviour.

The data cruncher
Name: Mouad El Ghazi
Country: Germany
Joined ING: 2017
Role: Head of customer
intelligence.

My role and that of my team of data analysts is to turn
data into tailored solutions for customers. This happens
through analytics, modelling and smart data integration
from various sources to sharpen the customer profile.
We then know our customers better and provide them
with the right products and services instantly at the right
moment.
With big data and real-time technologies and processes
we can empower customers in their financial decisions.
Understanding their needs through data is an important
skill in banking. We should care about data, turn it
into valuable knowledge and create added value for
customers.
I believe there are two main changes impacting any
business – digitalisation and agility. I’m happy both play
a crucial role in ING’s strategy.
Despite only joining in June, I am aware of the Orange
Code and how it describes our values and the way we
act together. This is important to me as a believer in
teamwork and collaboration to meet any challenge and
deliver the best customer experience.
As a manager, it’s my responsibility to encourage my
team to use the opportunities ING offers to help them
achieve a work/life balance.
ING Group Annual Report 2017

41

I joined ING for many reasons. Most important was
the reputation and quality of the International Talent
Programme (ITP). It is known as one of the best
traineeships in Belgium. I also wanted a role in one of the
biggest transformations in the banking industry. ING is a
pioneer.
This is my second rotation in the ITP. I’m in charge of
implementing the branch network of a new distribution
model. We are changing the way we interact with
and serve customers. We’re offering more online and
remote solutions and extending our availability. My first
rotation was in a branch, so I have a clear view on what
customers expect.
ING offers much more than a job. It promotes diversity
and gives us the opportunity to learn, develop our
skills and challenge ourselves. Collaboration, openness
and agility are at the heart of every project. Belgium is
introducing the one Way of Working and I’ve attended
several training days with people from many different
departments.
I get the most satisfaction from positive feedback from
customers. Although I don’t have any direct contact with
customers anymore, I’m still working in their interests to
improve the way we serve them.
Awards
ING was again recognised as one of the world’s
leading employers by both the Top Employers
Institute and Great Place to Work.
I​n February 2017, ING gained Top Employer status for
Europe and individual recognition in Belgium, France,
Italy, Poland, Spain and the United Kingdom.
In Germany, ING was ranked by Great Place to Work
as the third best employer in the category 2,001 to
5,000 employees and ING-owned mortgage broker
Interhyp was also listed in the category 501 to 2,000
employees.
I​NG Services Polska was named the ‘Best IT workplace
in Poland 2016’ by Computerworld magazine​, based
on a survey of 3,500 respondents.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk and capital management
Risk and Capital Management focuses on
managing our risks in line with our risk appetite,
strengthening our capital base and supporting
businesses as ING implements the Think
Forward strategy. In a dynamic environment
with changing customer behaviour,
increasing regulatory requirements, emerging
competitors and new technologies, ING needs
to continuously develop its risk and capital
management. Managing risks and capital
effectively and efficiently is crucial to ING’s
sustained profitability.
Managing risks to protect and enable our
business

ING is engaged in activities that entail risk taking, every
day, throughout our business. ING is sensitive to multiple
financial risks, such as credit losses in our lending and
banking transactions, gains and losses from market
risk in our trading positions, and liquidity or funding
risks through financial management. Many of these
are managed and controlled through models, which
automatically introduce risk themselves.
Besides these financial risks, across our business, ING
is subject to non-financial risks associated with IT and
cybersecurity, operations and compliance to rules,
regulations, laws as well as the ethical norms that
are generally considered to apply to our people and
activities by society at large. Non-financial risks can
also arise throughout the relationship with our clients
should issues emerge that are irreconcilable with our
Environmental and Social Risk framework.
Risk management at ING is directed and overseen
by the independent Risk Management function. The
function’s primary roles are to properly identify, measure
and manage risks in normal and stressed economic
conditions, and to oversee our business activities to
ensure they are consistent with both our strategy and
our appetite for risk.
The overall amount of risk that ING is willing to take is
set out in the Risk Appetite Framework and the NonFinancial Risk Framework. Within these frameworks,
we monitor a range of risk metrics to make sure that
our risk profile is in line with our appetite for risk. The
Risk Appetite Framework, which is approved by the
Executive Board, is designed to be able to withstand
market volatility and stress, while meeting strategic
goals and regulatory requirements. This framework is
complemented with a Non-Financial Risk Framework
that includes compliance risk and operational risk. Both
frameworks combine various financial and non-financial
risk disciplines into a single converged approach and
provide the businesses with a clear and fair view on their
risks and the way these are managed. This view allows
ING Group Annual Report 2017

42

the Executive Board and senior management to form an
opinion on the adequacy of internal risk management
and control systems regarding the risks they face while
pursuing the Executive Board’s strategy. In addition,
ING has a process in place regarding internal control
over financial reporting. Both frameworks, including
underlying assumptions and metrics, are regularly
reviewed to ensure they stay relevant in a constantly
changing environment. ING conducts bank-wide and
portfolio- specific stress tests to ensure strength and
resilience in specific market conditions, by taking part in
regulators’ as well as our own internal stress tests.
For more information on risk appetite and stress
tests, please refer to the Risk Appetite Framework, the
Non-Financial Risk Framework and the Stress testing
sections of the ‘Risk Management’ chapter, part of the
consolidated annual accounts of this Annual Report.
For more information on Internal control over financial
reporting, please refer to the ‘Section 404 SarbanesOxley Act’ part of Corporate governance.

Tax risks are managed in a prudent manner. Tax policies,
procedures and a tax control framework have been
implemented to support management in mitigating
potential tax risks. Internal monitoring, control and
reporting of tax-related risks takes place on a permanent
basis with regular reporting to various stakeholders. Tax
risk management is subject to Corporate Audit testing
and evaluation. In the Netherlands, ING has opted for cooperative tax compliance (‘horizontaal toezicht’), which
implies overall transparency and disclosure of relevant
tax risks to the Dutch tax authorities.
While continuing our efforts to comply with applicable
laws and regulations, it remains a significant operational
challenge for banks to meet all these requirements
within the strict timelines. ING faces the risk of
failures in compliance, especially in areas where the
applicable regulations are unclear, subject to multiple
interpretations or under development, are in conflict with
each other, or where regulators revise their guidance
or courts overturn previous rulings. Implementing
the processes and procedures necessary for effective
compliance has significant implications for IT systems
and data, as people who have the necessary knowledge
and skills are scarce.
In the area of compliance risk, the Compliance Risk
Management function has established a control
framework based on laws and regulations, as well
as on the standards for non-financial risks as set out
in the ING’s internal control framework. To support
management in mitigating compliance risks, it
actively trains and advises the business in managing
compliance risks. Topics include money laundering,
terrorist financing, sanction and export control
compliance, conflicts of interest, misselling, corruption,
protection of customers’ interests, the Foreign Account
Tax Compliance Act (FATCA), the Common Reporting
Standard (CRS), and US withholding tax and information
reporting regulations.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk and capital management – continued

Where an ING employee suspects any irregularity or
misconduct within ING that leads to or could lead to a
violation of ING’s Orange Code, ING Policies and/or any
law, regulation or code, our Whistleblower Policy provides
for anonymous reporting, via internal or external
channels, alongside normal reporting channels. In 2017,
ING recorded 100 alleged irregularities in accordance
with its Whistleblower Policy, including 19 reports
of suspected breachs of Orange Code or unethical
behaviour.
For details please refer to the Pillar 3 report at
www.ing.com/17ar

ING has designed controls intended to mitigate the
compliance risks associated with the above-mentioned
risk areas. The effectiveness of the controls is tested
periodically, and senior management recognises its
responsibility to ensure our processes comply with
applicable laws and regulations, ING’s internal policies,
procedures and the Orange Code.
Further, given the heavy reliance on IT systems in
financial institutions, controls that monitor the various
aspects of IT risk, such as integrity, availability and
confidentiality, are embedded in ING’s risk and control
framework.
In connection with the introduction of the ING Way of
Working, Operational Risk Management and Information
Risk Management have established new risk governance
that adopts the ING Way of Working to ensure effective
non-financial risk management within various entities.
To enable business lines to manage their risk linked
to the increasing sourcing activities within ING, the
sourcing policy has been updated to cover generic key
control objectives for mitigating and monitoring key

risks. An integrated top-down/bottom-up emerging
risk assessment is performed to identify and monitor
developments that may have an impact on ING’s
strategy and risk profile, like changes in the global
environment, customer needs and expectations, local/
global regulatory requirements and the effectiveness of
our response to technological developments.
User Access Management (UAM) remains an important
element of our control framework to mitigate
unauthorised and/or inappropriate access to our data
and information. ING Bank is building on its cybercrime
resilience, further enhancing the control environment to
protect, detect and respond to e-banking fraud, DDoS
and targeted attacks.
ING’s most important risks and control measures
are regularly reported to and discussed by the Risk
Committee of the Supervisory Board. Both financial
and non-financial risk reports are reviewed in detail,
including the status of ING’s metrics with regard to
solvency, liquidity, funding, credit, market risk and nonfinancial risks. In addition, the design and the operation
of the Risk Appetite Framework and the Non-Financial
Risk Framework are discussed annually with the Risk
Committee and the full Supervisory Board, whereas
the design and the operation of internal controls over
financial reporting are discussed annually with the Audit
Committee and the Supervisory Board. As part of this
process shortcomings in Know Your Customer processes
were identified in these control systems and discussed
with the Risk committee and the full Supervisory Board.
Also an area of improvement that was identified in IT
risk was discussed. ING is vitally dependent on its IT
infrastructure for the reliability and continuity of its
operations. Although IT and digitalisation are seen
as opportunities for ING to distinguish itself from

Risk
Risk appetite

Governance
Three lines of defence

ING’s risk governance framework

First line of defence
Business lines

Second line of defence
Risk

Third line of defence
Audit

Business line managers
have primary responsibility
for day-to-day risk
management

• Formulates and
implements policies and
procedures, sets limits
and risk appetite

Independent and objective
assurance of the overall
effectiveness of internal
controls

• Executes transaction
approval processes
with veto right
• Oversees, challenges
and supports the
optimisation of risk/
reward trade-off

Execution
Value creation /risk taking

ING Group Annual Report 2017

Alignment between risks taken and the risk appetite

43

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk and capital management – continued

competitors, it also imposes risks. The risks imposed by
ING’s IT infrastructure are reporting outside the tolerance
levels that ING has committed itself to. Therefore
actions have been identified to improve IT systems
and processes in order to increase the efficiency and
effectiveness of the IT infrastructure and the reliability
and continuity of the IT processing. These improvements
have already lowered IT-related risks, but additional
efforts are needed to ensure that the IT infrastructure
will report within the defined risk appetite statement.
For more information on non-financial risks, please
refer to the ‘Risk Management’ chapter, part of the
consolidated annual accounts of this Annual Report.

Three lines of defence

ING’s governance framework establishes three lines
of defence to manage risk effectively. The three
lines of defence principle provides a clear division of
activities and defines roles and responsibilities for risk
management at different levels within ING and at
different stages in the lifecycle of risk exposures.
The commercial departments of the various business
lines, which have the primary responsibility for day-today risk management, form the first line of defence.
They are accountable for identifying, recording, reporting
and managing the risks that occur while conducting their
activities, including originating loans and taking deposits,
within applicable frameworks and the institution’s
limits. They also ensure that the right controls and
assessments are in place to mitigate them.
The independent risk management departments,
headed by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO), act as a second
line of defence. Their role is to make sure risk is properly
identified, measured, managed and reported. In order to
achieve that, they set policies and guidelines, implement
and operate control frameworks, and decide on risk
acceptance. They also aim to ensure compliance with
internal and external requirements on an individual
and consolidated basis. Furthermore, they support the
commercial departments and act where necessary to
keep the risk profile within the defined risk appetite.
The CRO is a member of the Executive Board and the
Management Board Banking, ensuring that risk remains
a continuing topic for the leadership team.
Corporate Audit is our third line of defence. It provides
an independent assessment of the internal controls
over the risks to ING’s business processes and assets,
including risk management activities performed in both
the first and second lines of defence.
We believe these three layers in combination are
necessary for a strong risk and control environment.
For more information on material risks, please refer
to the ‘Top and emerging risks’ section of the ‘Risk
Management’ chapter, part of the consolidated annual
accounts of this Annual Report, and the risk factors
section of the ‘Additional information’ chapter of this
Annual Report.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

44

Enhancing a proactive risk management
function

Our business and operating environment is changing
with trends such as changing customer behaviour,
increasing regulatory requirements, emerging
competitors and new technologies.
Regulation continues to broaden and deepen. As a
result of the economic crisis, rules and regulations
governing banks are developing rapidly. These are
largely in response to public sentiment that’s ever less
tolerant of bank failures and the use of public money
to rescue banks. The additional prudential rules in the
form of revisions to Basel III, announced in December
2017, consisting of among others a revision to the
standardised approach to credit risk, the introduction of
a capital floor based on standardised approaches and
limits in the use of internal models, require banks to keep
larger amounts of capital. These rules and regulations
also require us to supply more detailed, bank-wide
information to central banks and regulators.
Customer expectations are increasing in line with
changing technology. Banks are responding through
automation. This is allowing them, for example, to
provide customers with instant retail and corporate
credit offers, as well as a simple, rapid, online accountopening process. A large proportion of our customers
already uses digital channels to communicate with us
and for many it’s the only channel they use to contact
ING.
With developing technology and digitalisation, new
risk categories are emerging. That makes it vital for
the risk function to adapt so it can detect and manage
new risks. Over the past few years, ING has enhanced
its frameworks in areas including model risk and
cybersecurity risk. At the same time, technology and
advanced analytics are enabling new risk-management
techniques and helping the risk function make better risk
decisions at lower cost.
For more information on the risk management function
please refer to the ‘Risk Management’ chapter, part
of the consolidated annual accounts of this Annual
Report.

Part of ING’s Think Forward Strategy aims to increase the
pace of innovation to serve changing customer needs.
To do this, ING is either partnering, investing or building
various platforms (e.g., Yolt, Kabbage, Scalable Capital,
Payconiq). These innovations empower ING’s clients to
stay a step ahead.
ING announced in 2017 the launch of ING Ventures,
a EUR 300 million fund aimed at investing in fintech
companies and accelerate the pace of innovation. ING
considers partnering with and investing in fintechs as
a key element of its innovation strategy. ING Ventures
will build on the success that the current approach
has already brought over the past three years, which
has led to over 100 strategic fintech partnerships and
investments globally.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk and capital management – continued

While it will adopt investment methods and portfolio
management based on venture capital structures, the
aim will not be to achieve a solely financial goal. The fund
will focus on start-ups and companies that have already
gained some market traction. The companies it will invest
in are generally, but not exclusively, fintechs active in
countries where ING has a presence or where ING has the
intention to expand. As a responsible financial institution,
ING ensures that these platforms are aligned with ING’s
risk appetite and standards. Furthermore, ING is putting in
place a dedicated risk control framework for ING Ventures
aimed at properly identifying, measuring and managing
the risks arising from its activities.

Key developments in 2017

We look back on a year with a modest acceleration in
global growth, amid tighter regulation and
macroeconomic uncertainties. Very low interest rates
put pressure on our business model by squeezing
interest income. Geopolitical and economic instability
persisted in several geographical areas, as did volatility
in commodity prices. The fear of a ‘hard Brexit’ (no
agreement with the EU on an orderly exit of the UK,
leaving uncertainties on access to the single market
and customs union) and other nationalistic and populist
tendencies remained present. Data breaches and related
cyber-attacks continued to be major threats worldwide.
And climate change remained a challenge to the
sustainability of societies and economies around the
world.
In 2017, ING’s balance sheet demonstrated its resilience.
Our loan book continued to grow and our capital and
liquidity buffers improved. We experienced healthy
lending growth and declining risk costs resulting from
an improving macro-economic environment and active
management of our non-performing loans (NPLs).
The NPLs expressed as a percentage of lending credit
outstandings further improved. The NPL ratio decreased
to 1.9 percent at the end of 2017 from 2.1 percent at the
end of the previous year. This decrease was caused by
a EUR 1.1 billion reduction in NPLs, mainly in business
lending in the Netherlands, residential mortgages in the
Netherlands and General Lending & Transaction Services,
combined with an increase in total credit outstandings.
Risk costs decreased to EUR 676 million from EUR 974
million in 2016, driven by a benign
credit environment in most markets where ING is active.
ING managed its liquidity position on a consolidated level
well above minimum requirements. The total issuance of
long-term debt amounted to EUR 10.5 billion, including
EUR 7.6 billion of long-term senior unsecured debt and
EUR 2.1 billion of CRD IV eligible Tier 2 securities. In
2017, ING started issuing Tier 2 and senior unsecured
instruments at its resolution entity ING Groep N.V. in
order to improve the loss absorbing capacity for the
purposes of TLAC/MREL regulations. ING faced a further
decline in interest rates, but was able to keep its net
interest margin stable. ING’s loan-to-deposit ratio,
excluding securities that are recorded at amortised costs,
remained unchanged at 1.05.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

45

With regard to climate change, the Task Force on
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) published
a report in June 2017 with recommendations on
climate related disclosures. The TCFD provides
guidance to support large organisations in developing
climate-related financial disclosures consistent with
its recommendations and recommended disclosures.
For risk management, one of the thematic areas, the
recommendation is to describe the processes so readers
of climate-related financial disclosures can evaluate an
organisation’s overall risk profile and risk management
activities.
For an overview of ING’s climate-related disclosures see
the ‘Non-financial appendix’.

Corruption prevention is high on ING’s agenda. The
responsible behaviour embedded in our Orange Code
values is the basis of our approach to Compliance Risk
Management, which includes training of employees on
integrity-related topics and compliant behaviour. ING
has started a bank-wide enhancement programme
for its financial and economic crime policy to address
shortcomings identified in Know Your Customer (KYC)
processes and to ensure a consistent approach and
quality for business unit KYC processes.
As disclosed previously, ING is currently the subject of
criminal investigations by Dutch authorities, as well
as a related information request from US authorities,
regarding various requirements related to client onboarding, money laundering and corrupt practices.
For more information, please refer to the ‘Risk
Management’ chapter, part of the consolidated annual
accounts of this Annual Report and to Note 45 in the
‘legal proceedings’ part of the consolidated annual
accounts.

Integrity and transparency in financial markets are
essential for public and investor confidence. In light of
the revised Markets in Financial Instruments Directive
European legislation (MiFID II) that will come into effect
in January 2018, ING revised various MiFID II-related
policies and procedures. It also issued a new Investors
Protection & Markets Policy and Minimum Standards.
A central programme continued in 2017 to support
ING’s commitment to adhere to the revised legislation
and to create consistency throughout the organisation
with respect to complying with the legal requirements.
As part of the central project, a MiFID II awareness
e-learning has been developed and launched to targeted
staff in 2017.
The fourth anti-money laundering directive, as issued
by the European Union, has been incorporated into
the update of the ING Financial Economic Crime Policy
and Minimum Standards. The fourth directive builds on
its predecessor by establishing an Ultimate Beneficial
Owner (UBO) register at national level (with the potential
to share the information within the European Economic
Area) and provides for a stronger approach towards the
application of due diligence on ING’s customers. The
implementation deadline for the Directive was 26 June

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk and capital management – continued

2017. The implementation of the directive into Dutch
law was expected in July 2017, but has been delayed,
probably until early 2018. ING started to implement
several KYC enhancements in 2017.
In 2017, the Compliance Risk Management function
released a new, comprehensive policy covering all US
withholding tax and information reporting regulations.
Cybercrime is a continuing threat to companies in
general and to financial institutions in particular. Attacks
are often global in scale; their frequency and intensity
are increasing. Threats posed by Distributed Denial of
Service (DDoS), targeted attacks (also called Advanced
Persistent Threats) and ransomware are of particular
concern. ING is building on its cybercrime resilience,
further enhancing the control environment to protect
against, detect and respond to e-banking fraud, DDoS
and targeted attacks. Additional controls continue to
be embedded in the organisation as part of the overall
internal control framework and are continuously reassessed against existing and new threats. ING is also
strengthening its global cybercrime resilience, including
through strong collaboration against cybercrime with
financial industry peers, law enforcement authorities,
government (e.g. National Cyber Security Center) and
internet service providers (ISPs).
All business units have adopted the global data
protection policy (GDPP) that qualifies as binding
corporate rules. In each business unit and at bank level,
Dakota Access Pipeline – what happens when
concerns are raised after ESR due diligence
has taken place?
ING was one of 17 banks financing the Dakota Access
Pipeline. When presented with the funding request,
ING carefully screened the project according to laws
and regulations, as well as ING’s environmental and
social risk policy framework. The US government had
issued all necessary permits, an independent legal
review confirmed the project complied with all laws
and regulations, and an independent contractor hired
to do further due diligence also gave us a green light.
ING’s share in the project was USD 120 million.
After we learned that the indigenous Standing Rock
Sioux community disagreed with the processes
followed in the granting of licenses/permits we
requested - together with other lenders - that a
separate independent human rights expert review
the permitting process, with a specific focus on
the impacts on indigenous peoples. We discussed
with Standing Rock Sioux the possibility to continue
monitoring developments closely and continue trying
to positively influence the development of the project
or to distance ING from the project. After these
discussions ING decided to pursue the transfer of
the loan, which was fully supported by the Standing
Rock Sioux.
See more information at www.ing.com/17ar08

ING Group Annual Report 2017

46

a data protection executive is responsible for GDPP
compliance and compliance with local privacy laws.
Local data protection officers provide expertise and
support. The GDPP is currently being revised to comply
with the new EU General Data Protection Regulation
2016/679, which must be adhered to by May 2018.
A comprehensive chapter on ING’s risk management
practices is part of the consolidated annual accounts of
this Annual Report.

Environmental and Social Risk Management
ING makes a positive contribution to global economic
growth by incorporating and promoting responsible
lending and investment practices. Transparency,
openness and regaining trust are material topics,
both for ourselves and for our stakeholders. ING’s
Environmental and Social Risk (ESR) policy framework
guides in a consistent and transparent manner the
choices we make about how, where and with whom to
do business.

The ESR policy framework gives ING a competitive
advantage by helping us to stay a step ahead as new
environmental, social and human rights regulations
and standards are implemented globally. It’s regularly
updated to help ING and our clients gradually enhance
the implementation of key standards of the UN Guiding
Principles on Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises. The ESR policy framework also
provides guidance for compliance with new directives
and government decisions to combat climate change.
The ESR policy framework applies to all business conduct
globally. The Wholesale Banking segment (approx.
35.7 percent of ING’s assets) is the initial focus of our
assessments and is where we promote active ESR
dialogue, since Wholesale clients run a more substantial
risk of facing environmental and social issues. We have
been working with Wholesale clients for more than 15
years to support them in understanding and managing
their environmental and social impacts. A simplified
version of the ESR policy framework, following the same
rationale and principles, also applies to ING’s retail
activities for mid-corporates and SMEs.

The ESR policy framework in action

We screen all ING Wholesale Banking clients during the
lifetime of our relationship. The ESR policy framework
incorporates assessment tools that are used in ING’s
mainstream processes and systems. It’s therefore fully
integrated into regular client and transaction reviews.
The ESR policy framework covers ESR-sensitive sectors
and also includes explicit restrictions for activities not in
line with ING Values (for example, companies involved
in manufacturing cluster munitions), which we will not
finance.
A client’s ESR risk profile is just the starting point when
assessing how the ESR policy framework will apply in
each specific business engagement. One of the most
important determinants of ING’s ability to assess and
manage environmental, social and human rights-related
risks with a client is our proximity to the potential

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk and capital management – continued

Overall ESR risk distribution of corporate client
engagements Client Assessment (in%)

ambition to bring it close to zero by 2025, and includes
the following commitments:

8
14

78
Low risk
Medium risk
High risk

impact. The type of financial product or service offered
to the client determines this proximity upfront and thus
the appropriate level of due diligence and mitigation
measures. The sector, operating context and geography
will also provide an initial indication of the degree of ESR
due diligence needed.
In 2017, 3,354 wholesale engagements were assessed
under the ESR policy framework. Engagements
categorised as ESR low (78%) and medium risk (14%)
were managed by local and regional risk management,
whereas engagements categorised as ESR high risk
(8%) required specialised advice by the ESR department
headquartered in Amsterdam. In 2017, this department
issued 358 recommendations following in-depth ESR
assessments. Of these, 60.3% were positive, 21.2%
negative and 18.5% were positive subject to conditions
to improve social and/or environmental performance.
These conditions play an important role in helping clients
transition towards improved environmental and social
performance on the ground.
The ESR policy framework follows mainstream approval
processes and it’s applied by well-trained and mandated
people. In 2017, 288 of our risk, front-office and
compliance colleagues participated in ESR-dedicated
trainings around the globe. Training included classroom
sessions at ING offices in Amsterdam and other locations
around the globe.

Key updates to the ESR Framework

The framework is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure
we adequately identify and manage not only existing
but also new environmental and social risks. In 2017,
changes to the framework included:
Thermal coal policy: two years ago, ING announced its
commitment to not finance new coal-fired power plants
or thermal coal mines worldwide. We also committed
not to finance any new clients whose business is reliant
for more than 50 percent on operating coal-fired power
plants. In 2017, as part of ING’s efforts to support the
transition to a low-carbon economy, ING decided to
further sharpen the policy regarding the financing of
thermal coal. The policy, which came into effect in
December 2017, speeds up the reduction of our
financing of thermal-coal power generation, with the
ING Group Annual Report 2017

47

• All existing clients in the utilities sector should have
reduced their reliance on thermal coal to close to zero
(<5% installed capacity) by the end of 2025 for us to
continue the relationship beyond that time.
• New clients in the utilities sector will only be admitted
if the client’s reliance on coal is 10 percent installed
capacity or less, and the client has a strategy to
reduce its coal percentage to close to zero by 2025.
• We will phase out our lending to individual coal-fired
power plants by the end of 2025.
Enhanced human rights due diligence: following
regulatory changes in some EU jurisdictions (e.g. UK
Modern Slavery Act, the French Plan de Vigilance, etc.),
and as part of our strong commitment to respect human
rights, we have increased human rights policy and
track record checks for all our corporate clients globally.
This analysis will help us determine which transactions
require further human rights analysis and action. This
information will also be used for future reporting and
increased transparency on human rights, which we
expect will be soon required by more regulators.
The ESR policy framework contributed to ING being
ranked among leaders in the DJSI World Index and the
DJSI Europe, key benchmarks for sustainable investors.

Developing best practice

Beyond stimulating better environmental and social
performance in our portfolio, ING actively collaborates
with other institutions and regulators to address
environmental challenges that are sector- and not just
client-specific.
• ING and the Equator Principles (EPs): The process
for updating the EPs, a risk management framework,
currently adopted by 91 financial institutions to
determine, assess and manage environmental and
social risk in projects, was formally announced in
November 2017. ING is an EP steering committee
member and will be actively involved in the review
of the principles, which are considered market best
practice. The process aims for a targeted update of
the EPs – ‘EP4’ – that will consider key issues of scope
of applicability, such as human rights (including the
rights of indigenous peoples), and climate change.
• Stakeholder engagement on Human rights: We
engaged in several Dutch multi-stakeholder platforms
to implement the Dutch Banking Sector Agreement on
International Responsible Business Conduct Regarding
Human Rights. Our progress and analysis of salient
human rights issues will be reported in a dedicated
Human Rights report in 2018. In the international
arena, ING remained engaged in the Thun Group,
an informal group of bank representatives that
work together to raise awareness of the UN Guiding
Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP)
within the banking sector, and how they can be
applied across the range of different banking activities.
In 2017, the group published a second discussion

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk and capital management – continued

paper addressing the meaning and reach of UNGP
13b in a corporate and investment banking context,
and providing additional guidance around Principle
17. ING’s leading role in human rights is reflected by
our participation as a formal advisory member to the
OECD on responsible business conduct in our sector.
• Responsible Ship Recycling Standards: in cooperation
with other international ship financing banks, ING
launched the Responsible Ship Recycling Standards.
In doing so, the banks hope to raise awareness of the
importance of improving the end-of-life stage of ships.
By taking part in the above-mentioned initiatives, we
aim to contribute our viewpoint and those of our clients,
employees and other stakeholders in order to shape a
consensus and develop clear guidelines that can serve as
a standard for our industry.

Regulatory developments

An agreement was reached on Basel ‘IV’ in December
2017. While some elements still require more clarity,
we believe the fully loaded Basel ‘IV’ impact may lie in
the range of a 15–18 percent increase in risk-weighted
assets (RWA) by 2027. This does not take into account
possible management actions. TRIM (targeted review of
internal models) may result in earlier impact on RWA
via Pillar 2. The implied impact on capital ratios does not
take into account any potential changes to the systemic
risk buffer or Pillar 2 requirements. Note this also
assumes the current asset mix to be the same in 2027,
as well as modeled RWA based on the current economic
environment. With a long implementation phase and
the transposition into EU regulation still pending, some
question marks remain on how this will shape up. ING is
confident that it will meet the final requirements and as
before we will continue executing our strategy for our
clients and delivering growth at good returns.
The impact of the implementation of IFRS 9 per 1
January 2018 is limited. It is currently expected that the
IFRS 9 impact at transition on ING Group’s CET1 ratio,
taking into account the existing regulatory provision
shortfall, will be a reduction of approximately 18 basis

points. The impact on CET1 capital is mainly caused by
the change in the classification and measurement of a
part of the liquidity portfolio.
To support orderly resolution, the BRRD requires banks to
meet minimum requirements for own funds and eligible
liabilities (MREL). In addition, ING as a Global Systemically
Important Bank (G-SIB) is expected to comply with
the total loss absorption capacity (TLAC) term sheet
published by the Financial Stability Board (FSB) in
November 2015.
By providing guidelines regarding the Supervisory Review
and Evaluation Process (SREP) the EBA is raising the bar
for the internal capital adequacy assessment process
(ICAAP) and enhancement of the capital management
framework.
The EBA published a Q&A on minority interests
highlighting the issue of externally placed own funds
from a subsidiary and their availability for the purposes
of loss absorption at the consolidated level. This
recalibration will largely disappear over time as ING will
mainly issue capital instruments from the Group in the
future.

Requirement and Guidance for 2017 and
2018 Pillar 2 requirements

One specific element of Basel III is the possible restriction
on distributable items. This limits the ability of the bank
to pay dividends, hybrid coupons and/or management
remuneration if its capital drops below the sum of its
Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 requirements and combined buffer
requirements, often referred to as the Maximum
Distributable Amount (MDA) trigger. The Pillar 2
requirement in the SREP 2017 decision is split into:
• Pillar 2 requirements (P2R), which are binding and
therefore breaches have direct legal consequences.
• Pillar 2 guidance (P2G), which is not legally binding,
so a failure to meet P2G does not automatically
trigger legal action. Nonetheless, a breach of the P2G
may lead to the ECB taking measures based on the
individual situation of the bank.

ING Group SREP/CET1 requirement

MDA
restriction
level (9.0%)
1.50%
1.25%

0.02%

MDA
restriction
level (10.4%)
2.25%
1.88%

0.06%

MDA
restriction
level (11.8%)
3.00%
0.06%
2.50%

1.75%

1.75%

1.75%

4.50%

4.50%

4.50%

2017 CET1
Phased-in

ING Group Annual Report 2017

2018 CET1
Phased-in

2019 CET1
Fully-loaded

48

Pillar 2 Guidance (P2G)
System Risk Buﬀer (SRB)
Countercyclical Buﬀer (CCyB)
Capital Conservation Buﬀer (CCB)
Pillar 2 Requirement (P2R)
Pillar 1 minimum (P1R)

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk and capital management – continued

The European Central Bank (ECB) decision on the 2016
SREP set the transitional (phased-in) common equity Tier
1 requirement for ING Group at 9.02% in 2017. For 2018
the SREP requirement will be 10.4%. This requirement
consists of a 4.5% Pillar 1 requirement, a 1.75% Pillar
2 requirement, a 1.875% Capital Conservation Buffer
(CCB), Countercyclical Buffer (CCyB) of 0.06% (based on
December 2017 positions) and the 2.25% Systemic Risk
Buffer (SRB). This excludes Pillar 2 guidance, which is not
disclosed.
ING Group’s phased-in (transitional) common equity Tier
1 ratio of 14.7% at 31 December 2017 is well in excess of
the 2017 requirement.
The CCB and the SRB are scheduled to phase in to 2.5%
and 3.0% respectively by 1 January 2019. Consequently,
the fully-loaded Maximum Distributable Amount (MDA)
trigger level is expected to rise from 9% in 2017 to 11.8%
in 2019 and assumes a stable Pillar 2 requirement. In
the event that ING Group breaches the MDA level it may
face restrictions on paying dividends, coupons on AT1
instruments and bonuses. With a fully-loaded Group
CET1 ratio of 14.7% as at 31 December 2017, ING is
already in compliance with the current, fully-loaded
requirement of 11.8%.

Capital developments at ING Group

The capital position further strengthened in 2017
reflecting strong profitability based on core lending
growth and complemented with further optimisation of
the capital structure. At both consolidated and entity
level, ING has sufficient buffers to withstand certain
adverse scenarios without breaching currently applicable
and possible future requirements. ING is confident
this position will allow us to continue to successfully
execute our Think Forward strategy and support business
growth, at the same time that we pay a progressive
dividend to shareholders and provide a healthy return to
bondholders.
ING Group’s fully-loaded CET1 ratio was 14.7% at the end
of 2017. The proposed dividend, to be paid in April 2018,
has already been excluded from ING Group’s capital
base, in line with regulatory requirements. The Group’s
phased-in CET1 ratio at the end of the year increased
by 0.6%-point from the previous year to 14.7%, as
risk-weighted assets decreased slightly (mainly due to
positive risk migration and FX impact) and available CET1
capital increased by EUR 1.1 billion compared with yearend 2016. This excludes a reserve of EUR 1.7 billion for
the final dividend over 2017.
In 2017, a total of USD 2.1 billion grandfathered
additional Tier 1 instruments were redeemed. ING Groep
NV did not issue additional Tier 1 instruments during the
year. In 2017, EUR 1.0 billion ING Bank Tier 2 bonds were
exchanged for ING Group Tier 2 notes at similar terms.
In addition ING Groep NV issued EUR 1.8 billion of Tier 2
bonds and EUR 0.4 billion of Tier 2 private placements
in Japanese Yen and USD. To improve the loss absorbing
capacity for TLAC/MREL regulations, ING Groep NV issued
EUR 6 billion of senior HoldCo debt in 2017.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

49

A comprehensive chapter on ING’s capital management
practices is part of the consolidated annual accounts of
this Annual Report.

Dividend

ING Group’s dividend policy aims to pay a progressive
dividend that will reflect considerations including
expected future capital requirements, growth
opportunities available to the Group, net earnings,
and regulatory developments. The Executive Board
proposes to pay a total cash dividend of EUR 2.6 billion,
or EUR 0.67 per ordinary share, over the financial year
2017. This is subject to the approval of shareholders at
the Annual General Meeting in April 2018. Taking into
account the interim dividend of EUR 0.24 per ordinary
share paid in August 2017, the final dividend will amount
to EUR 0.43 per ordinary share and will be paid fully in
cash. The total amount of EUR 1.7 billion is completely
covered by the remaining balance of ‘interim profits not
included in CET1 capital’ at year-end 2017.

Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive

Since its adoption by the European Parliament in 2014,
the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD) has
become effective in all EU countries after transposition
into national law, including in the Netherlands. The BRRD
aims to safeguard financial stability and minimise the
use of public funds in case banks face financial distress
or fail. To comply with the new rules, banks across the EU
need to have recovery plans in place and to cooperate
with resolution authorities to determine and make
feasible the preferred resolution strategy.
ING has set up a comprehensive recovery plan that it
believes ensures the bank’s readiness and supports
decisive action to tackle financial crises on its own.
Effective since 2012, the plan is updated annually to
make sure it stays fit for purpose. The completeness,
quality and credibility of the updated plan is assessed
annually by ING’s regulators.
G-SIBs will be required to meet the TLAC requirement
alongside the minimum regulatory requirements set
out in the Basel III framework. Specifically, the TLAC
term sheet requires ING to meet a minimum TLAC
requirement including buffer requirements of at least
21.5% of the resolution group’s risk-weighted assets
(TLAC RWA Minimum) as from 1 January 2019 and at
least 23.5% as from 1 January 2022. Also, minimum
TLAC must also be at least 6% of the Basel III leverage
ratio denominator (TLAC Leverage Ratio Exposure (LRE)
Minimum) as from 1 January 2019, and at least 6.75%
as from 1 January 2022. No buffer requirements will
come on top of the leverage requirement.
At the end of January 2017, the Single Resolution Board
(SRB) informed ING that it supports the designation of
ING Group as the single point of entry for resolution
purposes. Henceforth, ING Group will be the issuing
entity for all TLAC/ MREL eligible debt consisting of
additional Tier 1, Tier 2 and senior unsecured debt. The
SRB has not yet set legally binding MREL requirements.
Any potential (higher) shortfall related to legally binding

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk and capital management – continued

MREL requirements, new regulatory initiatives and
balance sheet growth will be met with additional Group
issuance.

A consistent approach to capital
management

ING Group’s overall approach to capital management is
intended to ensure that capital is adequate to cover the
(economic) risks at all levels and to ensure compliance
with regulations. ING Group challenges these levels
constantly to ensure its optimal use. The continued
strength of ING’s capital position, the adequacy of
our financial position and our risk management
effectiveness are essential to achieving our purpose to
empower people and businesses to realise their goals,
as well as to increase ING’s lending capabilities, pay
dividend on common shares to shareholders and invest
in new technologies and best practices. In this way, ING
aims to deliver shareholder returns while it also invests in
further innovation of products and services.
ING’s Capital Management strategy is driven by its
strategic aims and its risk appetite. Our policy is to retain
sufficient financial flexibility to implement ING’s strategy
in all market conditions. ING’s risk appetite statements
form the basis of the capital plan. The capital plan sets
targets above the minimum regulatory requirements.
The risk appetite statements and targets are developed
and communicated to the different businesses in line
with capital allocation. Policies for recovery planning
and resolution are a natural extension of ING’s capital
management policies and are fully aligned with ING’s
risk management framework.

Capital distribution

ING Group manages capital at ING Group as well as
ING Bank level and allocates capital within its different
entities to meet local capital requirements. ING’s
subsidiaries are well capitalised. ING sets targets for
individual businesses above the minimum local capital
requirements and aims for an efficient distribution of
capital. The capital provides room for loan growth and
supports our Think Forward strategy for continued
commercial growth, an improved customer experience
and a quicker delivery of new products.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

50

Stress testing

Stress testing is an integral component of our risk and
capital management framework. It allows us to (i) assess
potential vulnerabilities in our businesses, business
model or portfolios; (ii) understand the sensitivities of the
core assumptions in our strategic and capital plans; and
(iii) improve decision-making through balancing risk and
return.
In addition to internal stress-test scenarios reflecting
the outcomes of the annual risk assessment, ING also
participates in regulatory stress-test exercises. ING
participated in the 2017 EU-wide stress test that the
ECB conducted in order to assess the sensitivity towards
interest rate risk in the banking book. In addition, ING
started preparing for the 2018 EU-wide stress test that
will be conducted by the European Banking Authority
(EBA) in cooperation with the ECB. This stress test will be
based on the 2017 year-end financial position and will
also reflect the impact of IFRS 9 for determining loan loss
provisions in adverse circumstances.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Composition of the Executive Board
and Management Board Banking

Ralph Hamers

Koos Timmermans

Steven van Rijswijk

Roel Louwhoff

Aris Bogdaneris

Roland Boekhout

R.A.J.G. (Ralph) Hamers (51)

M.I. (Isabel) Fernandez Niemann (49)

CEO ING Group and chairman of the Executive Board ING Group,
CEO ING Bank and chairman of the Management Board Banking
Ralph Hamers was appointed a member of the Executive
Board of ING Group as of 13 May 2013. He was appointed
chief executive officer (CEO) and chairman of the Executive
Board and of the Management Board Banking on 1 October
2013 and was reappointed on 8 May 2017. His responsibilities
include Innovation, Legal, Corporate Strategy, Corporate Human
Resources, Corporate Communications, and Corporate Audit
Services.

Head of Wholesale Banking and member of the Management
Board Banking
Isabel Fernandez was appointed to the Management Board
Banking as of 1 September 2016 and appointed head of
Wholesale Banking as of 1 November 2016. She is responsible for
ING’s wholesale banking activities globally and for the research
department.

R.M.M. (Roel) Louwhoff (52)

COO/CTO and member of the Management Board Banking
Roel Louwhoff was appointed as chief operations officer (COO)
member of the Management Board Banking as of 1 May 2014.
He was also appointed chief transformation officer (CTO) per
1 October 2016. Roel Louwhoff is responsible for operations, IT
(including standardisation), data management, information
security, process management, and procurement.

J.V. (Koos) Timmermans (57)

CFO ING Group and member of the Executive Board ING
Group, CFO and vice-chairman ING Bank and member of the
Management Board Banking
Koos Timmermans was appointed as chief financial officer (CFO)
and member of the Executive Board of ING Group as of 8 May
2017. He also serves as vice-chairman ING Bank and member of
the Management Board Banking, having been appointed to those
roles as of 1 October 2011. He is responsible for ING’s finance
departments, capital management, bank treasury, tax, investor
relations, sustainability, and regulatory and international affairs.

A. (Aris) Bogdaneris (54)

Head of Challengers & Growth Markets and member of the
Management Board Banking
Aris Bogdaneris was appointed a member of the Management
Board Banking as of 1 June 2015. He is also head of Challengers &
Growth Markets, responsible for all markets where ING is active in
both retail banking and wholesale banking outside the Benelux.

S.J.A. (Steven) van Rijswijk (47)

CRO ING Group and member of the Executive Board ING Group,
CRO ING Bank and member of the Management Board Banking
Steven van Rijswijk was appointed a member of the Executive
Board of ING Group and as member of the Management Board
Banking as of 8 May 2017 and chief risk officer (CRO) as of
1 August 2017. He is responsible for all of ING’s risk management
departments.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

Isabel Fernandez Niemann

R.B. (Roland) Boekhout (54)

Head of Market Leaders and member of the Management Board
Banking
Roland Boekhout was appointed to the Management Board
Banking as of 8 May 2017. He is also head of Market Leaders,
responsible for ING’s retail banking and wholesale banking in the
Benelux and advanced analytics.

51

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

ING Shares
Share information

The authorised share capital of ING Groep N.V. consists
of ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares.
Currently, only ordinary shares are issued, while a
right to acquire cumulative preference shares has been
granted to the ING Continuity Foundation. Each share
in the capital of ING Groep N.V. gives entitlement to cast
one vote.

Listings

ING Group ordinary shares are listed on the stock
exchanges of Amsterdam, Brussels and New York (NYSE).
Options on ING Group ordinary shares or in the form of
American depository receipts (ADRs) are traded on the
Euronext Amsterdam Derivative Markets and the Chicago
Board Options Exchange.

Shareholders and ADR holders with stakes
of 3 percent or more

Pursuant to the Dutch Financial Supervision Act,
shareholders and holders of ADRs of ING Groep N.V.
are required to provide updated information on their
holdings once they cross threshold levels of 3%, 5%,
10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 75% and
95%. As of the publication date of this report, ING Group
is not aware of shareholders, potential shareholders
or investors with an interest of three percent or more
in ING Group other than BlackRock Inc. and Artisan
Investments GP LLC.
Read more in the ‘Corporate governance’ chapter on
the share capital of ING Group.

Authorised and issued capital
in EUR million

Year-end
2017

Year-end
2016

147
39

147
39

46
-

46
-

Year-end
2017

Year-end
2016

3,885.8

3,878.5

0.9

0.6

3,884.8

3,877.9

Ordinary shares
– authorised
– issued
Cumulative preference shares
– authorised
– issued

Number of shares in issue and shares
outstanding in the market
in millions

Ordinary shares
Own ordinary shares held by
ING Group and its subsidiaries
Ordinary shares outstanding in
the market

Prices of ordinary shares
Euronext Amsterdam by
NYSE Euronext in EUR

2017

2016

2015

Price – high
Price – low
Price – year-end
Price/earnings ratio1
Price/book value ratio

15.98
12.93
15.33
12.1
1.18

13.73
8.55
13.37
11.1
1.04

15.90
10.35
12.45
12.00
1.01

1 Based on the share price at year-end and the earnings per ordinary
share for the financial year.

Geographical distribution of ING ordinary shares
(in %)1
3
13

4

United States

1

33

United Kingdom
France
Germany

10

Netherlands
Switzerland
Rest of Europe
13

Rest of World
23

1 These ﬁgures based on 4Q 2017 estimates of institutional share
ownership provided by IPREO and includes ordinary shares
represented by American depository receipts.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

52

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

ING Shares – continued

One-year price development of ING ordinary shares
1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017
120

110

100

90

1 Jan. 2017
ING (Euronext)

1 Apr. 2017

1 Jul. 2017

Stoxx Europe 600 Banks

Euro Stoxx Banks

1 Oct. 2017

31 Dec. 2017

Euro Stoxx 50

Credit ratings

ING’s short- and long-term credit ratings are shown
in the table below. Each of these ratings reflects only
the view of the applicable rating agency at the time
the rating was issued, and any explanation of the
significance of a rating may be obtained only from the
rating agency. A security rating is not a recommendation
to buy, sell or hold securities and each rating should
be evaluated independently of any other rating. There
is no assurance that any credit rating will remain in
effect for any given period of time or that a rating will
not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by
the rating agency if, in the rating agency’s judgement,
circumstances so warrant. ING accepts no responsibility
for the accuracy or reliability of the ratings.
Main credit ratings of ING at 31 December 2017

ING Groep N.V.
ING Bank N.V.
– Short term

ING Group Annual Report 2017

Standard & Poor’s
Rating
Outlook
AStable
A+
Stable
A-1

Moody’s
Rating
Baa1
Aa3
P-1

53

Outlook
Stable
Stable

Fitch Ratings
Rating
Outlook
A+
Stable
A+
Stable
F1

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

ING Shares – continued

Sustainability ratings

ING Group’s approach to sustainability is shaped by
our specific skills and expertise as a financial company,
our vision of the future and the expectations of
our stakeholders. Reviews of our performance by

sustainability research and rating agencies help us to
improve our strategy and policies. ING’s 2017 scores
and rankings in key sustainability benchmarks show our
progress and are as follows:

External reviews of our sustainability performance1
2017

2016

2015

2014

Score:
89 (out of 100)

Score:
90 (out of 100)

Score:
86 (out of 100)

Score:
82 (out of 100)

Included in World
and Europe Index

Included in World
and Europe Index

Included in World
and Europe Index

Included in World
and Europe Index

Sustainalytics²

Score:
85 (out of 100)
Position:
7 (out of 341
financial peers)

Score:
86 (out of 100)
Position:
1 (out of 395
financial peers)

Score:
88 (out of 100)
Position:
3 (out of 409
financial peers)

Score:
77 (out of 100)
Position:
3 (out of 130
financial peers)

CDP
(Carbon Disclosure Project)3

Score:
A for climate
leadership

Score:
A for climate
leadership

Position: Included

Position: Included

Score:
100 for disclosure
(out of 100) and A
for performance
Position: Included

Score:
97 for disclosure
(out of 100) and A
for performance
Position: Included

FTSE4Good Index Series

Position: Included

Position: Included

Position: Included

Position: Included

Transparantie Benchmark (NL)

Score: 187
Position:
22 (out of 482)

Score: 186
Position:
20 (out of 512)

Score: 181
Position:
14 (out of 461)

Score: 172
Position:
18 (out of 409)

MSCI ESG

Score: A

Score: A

Score: BBB

Score: BBB

Dow Jones Sustainability Indices
(RobecoSAM)

1 Some benchmarks we reported on in previous years are not included as they are not relevant any more given our new status as a standalone bank.
2 Ranked 7th and first in our market capitalisation peer group out of 341 listed banks in November 2017.
3 Starting 2016, CDP no longer separates disclosure and performance scores. A represents highest possible score across disclosure, awareness,
management, leadership evaluation.

Important dates in 20181
23 April
25 April²
26 April²
26 April²
3 May²
9 May
11 May²
2 August
6 August²
7 August²
13 August²
14 August²
21 August²
1 November

Investor Relations

2018 Annual General Meeting
Ex-date for final dividend 2017 (Euronext Amsterdam)
Record date for final dividend 2017 entitlement (NYSE)
Record date for final dividend 2017 entitlement
(Euronext Amsterdam)
Payment date final dividend 2017
Publication results 1Q2018
	
(Euronext Amsterdam)
Payment date final dividend 2017 (NYSE)
Publication results 2Q2018
Ex-date for interim dividend 2018
(Euronext Amsterdam)
Record date for interim dividend 2018 entitlement
(Euronext Amsterdam)
Record date for interim dividend 2018 entitlement
(NYSE)
Payment date interim dividend 2018
(Euronext Amsterdam)
Payment date interim dividend 2018 (NYSE)
Publication results 3Q2018

1 All dates are provisional.
2 Only if any dividend is paid.

For more information, see the calendar at www.ing.com/17ar9.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

54

To receive press releases and other
ING news, you can subscribe to the
email service at www.ing.com. You
can also access the latest financial
information and press releases on
our website at www.ing.com/ir

Investors and financial analysts
may contact:
ING Group
Investor Relations (AMP C.03.049)
P.O. Box 1800 1000 BV Amsterdam
The Netherlands
Telephone: +31 20 576 6396
E-mail: investor.relations@ing.com

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

About this report
Our stakeholders need both financial and
non-financial information to assess our ability
to create value in the short, medium and long
term. We believe that integrated reporting is
the broad-based framework our stakeholders
need to make decisions that are long term,
inclusive and purposeful.
Our approach to integrated reporting

In our view, a balanced integrated report contains
information on our economic performance and also
on the impact of our organisation on society and
the environment. By disclosing our financial and
non-financial results, strategy, governance, external
developments and the risks and opportunities we face,
we aim to enable our stakeholders to assess how we
create value for the long term. Our ambition is to further
integrate financial and non-financial information in a
concise and connected report.

Governance and responsibility

The contents of ING’s integrated annual reports are
compiled with active input from business experts, vetted
by senior managers, discussed and approved annually
by members of the Management Board Banking,
Executive Board and Supervisory Board. The final
approval is given by the Supervisory Board.

Report content and materiality

In drawing up content for this report we have taken into
account the topics that can have a material impact on
our business as well as risks and opportunities, applicable
regulation and trends.
As a financial institution, we recognise that we have a
direct economic, social and environmental impact, but
also a significant indirect impact, through credit, loans
and investments. ING’s Sustainability Reporting Protocol
describes our impact across our material topics and
stakeholder groups. Additionally, we report our impact in
the value chain on pages 21 and 22.
We continually listen to key stakeholders and adapt
our strategy and reporting to meet their evolving
expectations. As part of our materiality analysis, we
have consulted key stakeholder groups – retail and
business clients, investors, employees, academia, civil
society organisations, and financial regulators – in a
structured stakeholder dialogue. The results of our
materiality analysis are used to define the content of our
reporting. The report including materiality disclosure is
reviewed and approved by the Executive Board.
Read more in the ‘The world around us’ chapter.

Audience

This report is intended to serve the information needs
of key stakeholder groups that affect, and are affected
by our business: customers, employees, share- and
bondholders, supervisors, regulators, civil society
organisations and society at large. In addition, a clear
and easy overview of key figures and impacts in 2017 is
available at www.ing.com.
Sustainability rating agencies and analysts can find data
on non-financial key performance indicators in the
‘Non-financial appendix’.

Reporting guidelines

This integrated annual report, including the Nonfinancial Appendix, is prepared in accordance with
the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option and
supplementing Financial Services Sector Disclosures,
as well as the Dutch Accounting Standard 400. The
content and quality criteria specified by the guidelines
(sustainability context, stakeholder inclusiveness,
materiality, completeness, balance, comparability,
accuracy and reliability) are integral to our reporting
process. The Framework of the International Integrated
Reporting Council (IIRC) served as a reference in drawing
up the content for this report, particularly for our value
creation model in which we have included the main
capitals as input for our business.

Data compilation and boundaries

All financial data in this integrated report are extracted
or derived from, and in line with, our annual accounts.
The non-financial performance data published in this
report cover five key topics: sustainable business,
customers, human resources, environment and
community investment. We extract or derive data on
sustainability-related business activities, customers
and human resources from our business systems, in
line with the data in our annual accounts. Data on
the topics environment and community investment
are collected through an online data management
system. The centralised data processing team at ING
Group validates and processes the environmental data
from our operations worldwide in collaboration with an
independent, third-party consultancy.

Scope and boundaries

Through our materiality assessment we ensure that all
identified material economic, social and environmental
topics are addressed in this report. The report covers the
period 1 January to 31 December 2017 and is published
on 8 March 2018. The data and content of this report
and Non-financial Appendix aim to provide a concise,
accurate and balanced account of ING’s economic, social
and environmental performance in 2017. Depending on
the topic, our approach and performance are explained
either in text, by referring to our policies or by providing
data and progress on targets.
The scope and data collection process of key
performance indicators is detailed in ING’s non-financial
data reporting protocol. See www.ing.com/17ar10

ING Group Annual Report 2017

55

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

About this report – continued

Assurance

We value the accuracy and reliability of all information
and data in this report, both financial and non-financial.
Therefore assurance for this integrated report, including
the accompanying Non-financial appendix, is provided
by KPMG Accountants N.V. (KPMG).
KPMG has reviewed, and provided a limited level of
assurance, on the non-financial information in the
Report of the Executive Board as defined in the table on
pages 12 and 13 and in the Non-financial appendix for
the year 2017. The topics with asterisk (*) in this table
are out of scope for non-financial assurance.
This year KPMG has also audited, and provided a
reasonable level of assurance, on the ‘What matters
most to our stakeholders’ section (page 11), the data for
the Net Promoter Score for Retail Banking, the feeling
of Financial empowerment and system availability.
The data with a footnote (1) on page 4 is within the
reasonable assurance scope.
See the ‘Independent auditor’s assurance report’ on
page 57. The chapters ‘Risk and capital management’
and ‘Remuneration report’ are an integral part of the
audited consolidated annual accounts.

KPMG audited the financial statements 2017 of
ING Group.
See the ’Independent auditor’s report’ on page 309.

Furthermore, KPMG audited ING Group’s internal control
over financial reporting as of 31 December 2017, based
on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013
framework, the COSO criteria).
See the ‘Report of independent registered public
accounting firm’ on page 87.

Future-oriented statements

In this integrated annual report we also look forward and
share our vision, ambitions, strategy, opinion and plans
for the future. These forward-looking statements can be
recognised by terms such as:
• aims
• expect
• anticipate
• intend
• plan
• believe
• seek
• see
• will
• would
• target
• forecast
• of the opinion
• or similar terms.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

56

These forward-looking statements are based on
management’s current beliefs and assumptions about
future activities and are subject to uncertainties.
Therefore our assurance provider cannot assure these
statements.

Feedback

This report aims to give all our stakeholders a balanced
and complete overview of our activities and ability to
create and sustain value. We welcome stakeholder
reactions and views. Please send us your feedback via
communication@ing.com.
Report of the Executive Board
The ‘Corporate Governance’ chapter starting on
page 70 and the ‘Dutch Corporate Governance Code
Statement by the Executive Board’ on page 83
are incorporated by reference in this Report of the
Executive Board.

Amsterdam, 5 March 2018
The Executive Board

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Independent auditor’s assurance report

Independent auditor’s assurance report
To: the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and the Supervisory Board of ING Groep N.V.
Our conclusion and our opinion

We have:
• reviewed the non-financial information in the Report of the Executive Board as defined in the table on pages
12 to 13 and in the ‘Non-financial appendix’ (hereafter: the Non-financial Information); and
• audited the ‘What matters most to our stakeholders’ section (pages 11 to 13) and the data for the Net
Promoter Score for Retail Banking, the Feeling of Financial Empowerment and the System Availability,
marked with the symbol a in the Report of the Executive Board and the ‘Non-financial appendix’ (hereafter:
the Four Specific Topics);
of ING Groep N.V. (hereafter: ING Group) based in Amsterdam, The Netherlands. A review is aimed at
obtaining a limited level of assurance. An audit engagement is aimed at obtaining reasonable assurance.
Based on our procedures performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the
Non-financial Information is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards and the applied reporting criteria as described in the section ‘About this report’.
Furthermore, in our opinion the Four Specific Topics are prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with
the applied reporting criteria as described in the section ‘About this report’.

Basis for our opinion and our conclusion

We have performed our review on the Non-financial Information and our audit on the Four Specific Topics in
accordance with Dutch law, including Dutch Standard 3000A ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or
Reviews of Historical Financial Information (attest engagement).
Our responsibilities under this standard are further described in ‘Our responsibilities for the review of the
Non-financial Information and audit of the Four Specific Topics’ of our report.
We are independent of ING Group in accordance with the ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van
accountants bij assurance-opdrachten’ (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with
respect to independence) and other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we
have complied with the ‘Verordening gedrags- en beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics).
We believe that the assurance evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
our conclusion and our opinion.

Scope of the group review and audit

ING Groep N.V. is the parent company of a group of entities. The Non-financial Information and the Four
Specific Topics incorporate the consolidated information of this group of entities.
Our procedures consisted of both procedures at ING group level and at country level. Our selection of
countries in scope of our procedures is primarily based on the country’s individual contribution to the
consolidated information.
By performing our procedures at country level, together with additional procedures at group level, we have
been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate assurance evidence about the group’s reported information to
provide a conclusion about the Non-financial Information and an opinion on the Four Specific Topics.

Our key assurance matters

Key assurance matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our
review of the Non-financial Information and our audit of the Four Specific Topics. We have communicated the
key assurance matters to the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board. The key assurance matters are not
a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed.
These matters were addressed in the context of our review of the Non-financial Information and our audit of
the Four Specific Topics as outlined above within the scope of our engagement as a whole and in forming our
conclusion and opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate conclusion or opinion on these matters.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

57

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Independent auditor’s assurance report – continued

Materiality
Description
The reporting criteria applied require to identify the material topics, which include financial and non-financial topics.
Material topics are those topics for which both omission or information could influence stakeholders’ decisions. ING
Group improved the materiality analysis process in 2017 by increasing the scope of their qualitative stakeholder
sessions to define which Non-financial information to be included. The Materiality Analysis process is subject to
significant management judgement and was therefore identified as a significant area for our procedures.
Our response
We obtained an understanding of the process that ING Group executed to identify and prioritize the topics, including
the Non-financial Information, to be reported in the Report of the Executive Board. We evaluated the steps in the
process, held interviews with key personnel and also conducted a media search and a peer benchmark to assess
potential material other topics to be included and compared these with ING Group’s materiality assessment. We
reviewed the results from ING Group’s materiality analysis against the information on this process reported.
Our observation
We found the materiality analysis process that ING Group executed during 2017 to be sufficiently solid to identify
relevant material topics for inclusion. We also observed that the material topics as identified in the related process
have been reflected in the Report of the Executive Board and the Non-financial appendix.

System Availability
Description
ING Group’s strategic focus includes improving the customer experience. ING has identified the stability and reliability
of IT systems and platforms as a material topic. The related performance is monitored by the KPI ‘System Availability’.
This KPI is reported for retail customers in the Netherlands and Belgium and wholesale customers globally.
Considering the business importance of this indicator and the reliance on IT systems in place, we identified System
Availability as an important indicator for our audit.
Our response
We obtained an understanding of the data collection process, evaluated the steps in the process and the tooling used
for monitoring, tested the effectiveness of the relevant controls for the Netherlands and Belgium and wholesale
customers globally. In addition, we assessed the applicability, clarity and consistency of the definitions applied and
re-performed the internal process of aggregation and calculation of the reported indicator. Furthermore, we read the
whole Report of the Executive Board to ensure it provides a clear, consistent and balanced reflection of ING Group’s
progress regarding System Availability. Finally, we assessed the adequacy of disclosure in relation to System
Availability as marked with the symbol Ⓐ in the Report of the Executive Board.
Our observation
We found the data collection process for the System Availability indicator for retail customers in the Netherlands and
Belgium and wholesale customers globally to be sufficiently solid to enable accurate and complete reporting. We also
found that the disclosure in relation to System Availability in the Report of the Executive Board is adequate.

Responsible Finance
Description
ING Group reports on Responsible Finance for the first time in 2017, replacing the indicator Sustainable Transitions
Financed. Responsible Finance is defined by a set of three KPIs, being financing to Industry ESG leaders, climate
finance and social finance.
Responsible Finance was significant to our review since we identified that it serves as a material set of indicators for
ING to monitor its performance and the impact of its lending activities and because the assessment is inherently
subject to assumptions and judgement on the basis of the criteria and definitions.
Our response
We evaluated the reporting process and internal control framework, including the applicable definitions and criteria. We
interviewed several staff members to understand the application of these definitions and criteria and we requested
underlying evidence, such as extractions of systems and contracts for selected transactions classified as Responsible
Finance. Finally, we reviewed whether the criteria, assumptions and limitations regarding Responsible Finance are
sufficiently explained in the Non-financial Information.
Our observation
We observed that the definitions and criteria for Responsible Finance as described in the internally developed reporting
framework are sufficiently applied and that the assumptions and limitations are adequately explained in the Nonfinancial Information.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

58

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Independent auditor’s assurance report – continued

Unexamined prospective information

The Non-financial Information includes prospective information such as ambitions, strategy, plans,
expectations and estimates. Inherently the actual future results are uncertain. We do not provide any
assurance on the assumptions and achievability of prospective information in the Non-financial Information.

Consistency with other non-financial information included in other parts of the Report of the
Executive Board

In addition to the Non-financial Information and our assurance report thereon, the Report of the Executive
Board contains other non-financial information.
Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude that the other non-financial information included in
other parts of the Report of the Executive Board is consistent with the Non-financial Information reviewed or
audited and does not contain material misstatements.
We have read the other parts of the Report of the Executive Board. Based on our knowledge, and
understanding obtained through our assurance procedures on the Non-financial Information we have
considered whether other non-financial information included in other parts of the Report of the Executive
Board contains material misstatements.
The scope of the procedures performed is substantially less than the scope of those performed in our
assurance procedures on the Non-financial Information.

Responsibilities of the Executive Board for the Non-financial Information

The Executive Board of ING Group is responsible for the preparation of the Non-financial Information in
accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and the applied reporting criteria as described in
the section ‘About this report’.
The Executive Board is also responsible for such internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the
preparation of the Non-financial Information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error.
The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing ING Group’s reporting process.

Our responsibilities for the review of the Non-financial Information and the audit of the Four Specific
Topics
Our responsibility is to plan and perform the assurance engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain
sufficient and appropriate assurance evidence for our conclusion and our opinion.

Procedures performed in an assurance engagement to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed to
determine the plausibility of information and are less extensive than a reasonable assurance engagement. The
level of assurance obtained in review engagements is therefore substantially less than the level of assurance
obtained in an audit engagement.
Our audit on the Four Specific Topics has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance,
which means we may not have detected all material errors and fraud.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or errors and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,
they could reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of users taken on the basis of the Non-financial
Information, including the Four Specific Topics. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our
review and audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our conclusion and
opinion.
We apply the ‘Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen’ (Regulations on quality management systems) and
accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures
regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory
requirements.
We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional scepticism throughout the
review, in accordance with the Dutch Standard 3000A, ethical requirements and independence requirements.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

59

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Independent auditor’s assurance report – continued

Our review and audit engagement included, among others, the following procedures:
• Performing an analysis of the external environment, obtaining an understanding of relevant social themes
and issues, and of the organization’s business;
• Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria and its consistent application, including the evaluation
of the reasonableness of management’s estimates;
• Evaluating the design and implementation of the reporting systems and processes related to the Nonfinancial Information;
• Interviewing management and relevant staff at corporate and business level responsible for the
sustainability’s strategy and policy;
• Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the Non-financial Information, carrying out internal control
procedures on the data and consolidating the data as included in the Non-financial Information;
• An analytical review of the trends and data submitted for consolidation at corporate level;
• Reviewing relevant data and evaluating internal and external documentation, based on limited sampling, to
assess the accuracy of the Non-financial Information in scope.
In addition our audit included, among others, the following procedures:
• Evaluating the reliability of external experts in providing input data for the Net Promoter Score and the
Feeling of Financial Empowerment
• Test the design and implementation and operating effectiveness of IT relevant controls for the indicator on
System Availability.
We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing
of the review and the audit and significant findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we
identify during our review and our audit.
From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board we determine the key assurance matters: those
matters that were of most significance in the review of the Non-financial Information and the audit of the Four
Specific Items. We describe these matters in our assurance report unless law or regulation precludes public
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not mentioning it is in the public interest.
Amstelveen, 5 March 2018
KPMG Accountants N.V.
M.A. Hogeboom RA

ING Group Annual Report 2017

60

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Chairman’s statement
2017 was a successful year for ING. Much
progress was made in building the ING of
tomorrow. ING is recognised as a leader in
the digital banking experience. The bank also
continued to support the development of
a sustainable world. The Supervisory Board
believes in ING’s journey of transformation to
create a business that excels for our customers
now and in the future. We actively supported
and challenged the Executive Board and
Management Board Banking in 2017 to make
this a reality.

Effective execution

The world around us is in constant flux. Increasing
digitalisation, disruption in banking, changing customer
expectations and new regulation make it all the
more important to renew the bank in all its aspects.
The differentiator of the future in banking will not be
products and services, but rather a superior customer
experience.
ING has made progress in accelerating its transformation
programmes in order to deliver an even more uniform
and superior experience across borders and serve
customers better. We can all be proud of what’s been
achieved so far. In this report you can find many
examples of how the bank is creating and co-creating
better customer experiences, for example in partnership
with fintechs; and also how ING is contributing to
a more sustainable world through its financing of
sustainable projects and continued involvement in the
circular economy. ING is aware of the important role
banks can play in creating a better world and is taking
concrete steps to realise that. For instance, ING recently
announced its ambition to reduce its exposure to coal
power generation to close to zero by 2025.
Building the bank of the future is a major undertaking
and there is still much more to be done. Competition
is fierce, including from new entrants to the market.
There’s no time to lose. ING is in a relatively good
position, as illustrated by the Best Bank in the World
award that it received from Global Finance magazine in
2017. But there’s a need to go faster. We believe ING has
a good strategy in place. The challenge now is to execute
that with speed.
As Supervisory Board, we challenge, supervise and advise
the Executive Board and Management Board Banking
with respect to the company’s strategy. We do that by
making sure decision-making is timely as well as of high
quality. An important part of that is ensuring proper
delegation of responsibilities and that our role facilitates
and does not block decision-making.
ING Group Annual Report 2017

61

The extensive contacts between the Supervisory Board,
the Executive Board and Management Board Banking
ensure that we have a shared perspective on how ING
needs to move forward. Still, dilemmas remain. Speed
is important, but so too is pacing. If we move too fast
we risk overloading people – they need to have the
opportunity to reskill themselves to be aligned and
productive in the new situation. We also have to make
sure that we have the right talent in the right places to
support change.
It’s also important not to lose sight of the day-to-day
business. Particularly in a time of change, ING needs
to remain vigilant so that it continues to meet the
expectations of customers and society. This includes
ensuring that the business meets the highest standards
in non-financial risk areas like customer due diligence
and anti-money laundering measures.

Permanent education

The task of the Supervisory Board is to look at the
total picture and to have a holistic view. It’s important
to have good insights and understanding of all the
relevant topics and developments that contribute to
ING’s strategy. To do that, we need to stay informed and
upgrade our own skills and knowledge as needed.
The permanent education of the Supervisory Board
in 2017 took a number of forms. We participated in a
number of educational sessions on specific topics. We
had meetings with senior managers and their teams
to be updated on business activities and to share
information. And we also visited offices. In addition, the
chairmen of all Supervisory Board committees and I had
many additional one-to-one meetings with managers
and specialists within ING.
It’s our job to balance the interests of all stakeholders,
and to make sure we have an open dialogue. For
that we need to have a good understanding of what
stakeholders think and how their thinking can change.
In 2017, we had contacts with a range of stakeholders
in order to have a good understanding of the impact
that Executive Board and Management Board Banking
actions and proposals have on them. In September 2017,
I joined one of ING’s road shows to the UK to meet with

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Chairman’s statement – continued

investors and analysts and to exchange views on topics
such as governance and sustainability in the context of
ING’s strategy and performance. We also interact with
stakeholders during the Annual General Meeting and
through the workers’ council. These interactions enable
us to learn which matters are most important to our
stakeholders and how we can best align their interests
with ING’s business.

We strive for a Supervisory Board composition with
two-thirds of members having financial experience and
background and one-third being generalists. We aim to
have 30% female membership within the Supervisory
Board. We met those goals at the beginning of 2017.
However, due to the unexpected departure of Ann Sherry
we are now in the process of restoring the balance,
which is regrettably taking more time than we expected.

Regulation

Successful journey

The increase in regulation and the speed of regulatory
change are both important topics for ING and were
prominent on the agenda of the Supervisory Board
in 2017. One of our concerns is that there still isn’t a
level playing field, both between banks and between
banks and new non-bank entrants to the market,
particularly in Europe. With regard to the agreement
on the new ‘Basel IV’ rules, we’re concerned about the
reasonableness of some measures. Those include the
application of standard capital floors for mortgages
instead of default experience, which will make this
form of lending that is so important to society more
expensive.

Changing role

Our role as Supervisory Board has changed in recent
years. We see that committee meetings are becoming
more important as more topics are being dealt with
by the different committees, involving more in-depth
discussions. This is due to the rapid pace of change
in areas like digitalisation and customer behaviour. It
also reflects the increase in regulation and the more
frequent contact with regulators like the Dutch central
bank (DNB) and the European Central Bank (ECB). But it is
also because the Supervisory Board is even more closely
involved, for example in monitoring risks.
Although we see that in recent years the tasks of
the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board and
Management Board are converging in some areas, we
still believe that a two-tier board has the advantage of
more clearly defining the supervisory and executive
roles.
In 2017, the composition of the Supervisory Board
changed. We said goodbye to Isabel Castella and
Ann Sherry. We welcomed Hans Wijers and Jan Peter
Balkenende, who were appointed to the Supervisory
Board as per the end of the Annual General Meeting on 8
May 2017. Their appointments became effective as per
September 2017. We also welcomed Margarete Haase,
whose appointment will become effective as per 1 May
2018.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

62

As Supervisory Board members, we are very aware of
the hard work that ING’s employees put in every day to
give customers the best possible service and experience.
And we realise what an achievement it is to deliver
such impressive commercial and financial results at the
same time that the business is going through a major
transformation. We’re proud of how ING works to live
up to its purpose and transform its business to serve
customers better in the future.
I will step down as Chairman of the Supervisory Board
immediately following the AGM in 2018. When I came
on board in 2009, ING was in the midst of a crisis. Now,
nine years later, through the hard work of employees,
loyalty of customers and support of stakeholders, ING
is in many ways among the frontrunners in banking. I
am really impressed by the results achieved so far and
also feel very grateful to the people who made this all
happen, despite difficult times. It’s my sincere wish that
ING’s journey of success will continue in the future.

Jeroen van der Veer
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
5 March 2018

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Report of the Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board and its committees
focused in 2017 on supporting and challenging
ING’s management to promote the success
of the Think Forward strategy and of ING’s
transformation. In a time of rapid technological,
market and regulatory change, the SB also
shared its experience and skills to contribute
to ING’s financial and organisational health for
the benefit of all stakeholders, and it further
enhanced its own knowledge to be able to play
its important role in the future.
The Supervisory Board met nine times in 2017. On
average, 99 percent of the Supervisory Board members
were present at the meetings. This attendance rate
illustrates that the members of the Supervisory Board
are engaged with ING and are able to devote sufficient
time and attention to oversee ING’s affairs. The Executive
Board and Management Board Banking were present
during each Supervisory Board meeting. For part of
the meetings only the chief executive officer was
present; this was dependent on the nature of the topics
addressed. The Supervisory Board also met in closed
sessions, with Supervisory Board members only, in
advance of the regular Supervisory Board meetings. The
purpose of these pre-meetings is to have a Supervisory
Board only reflection moment on the to-be-dealt-with
agenda items and to provide an opportunity for airing
concerns in advance of the regular meetings. The
Supervisory Board members continued to interact with
senior management outside the regular Supervisory
Board meetings for discussion and information sharing.
This included speed-meet sessions, which contribute

to a better mutual understanding of and alignment on
what matters most to ING and the Supervisory Board. To
take the interaction even further, the Supervisory Board
met with local country management teams and several
senior managers during its annual business visit. After
having visited the local teams in the US and Asia in the
previous two years, in September 2017 the Supervisory
Board’s focus was the Benelux, where it met with the
local teams in Amsterdam and Brussels. It will continue
this practice of meeting with local teams in the future.
The Supervisory Board finds it important to strike a
balance between the interests of all the stakeholders
and to maintain an open dialogue on this with all
sections within ING.
The Executive Board has prepared the annual accounts
and discussed these with the Supervisory Board. The
annual accounts will be submitted for adoption at the
2018 Annual General Meeting as part of the 2017 Annual
Report.
Apart from having closely monitored the financial
results in 2017, the Supervisory Board’s main focus
points were the acceleration of the bank’s Think Forward
strategy, including building a globally scalable digital
platform, partnering with fintechs, sustainability, capital
requirements, Know-Your-Customer enhancement
programme, IT and cybersecurity, and developments
in regulation and banking supervision. Furthermore,
the Supervisory Board discussed on a regular basis the
status of the criminal investigation by Dutch authorities
regarding various requirements related to client onboarding, money laundering and corrupt practices. It
also discussed the related information requests received
by ING Group from US authorities.
Please refer to the legal proceedings paragraph set
out in Note 45 to the consolidated annual accounts of
ING Group for more information.

Attendance
SB

Van der Veer (chairman)
Lamberti (vice-chairman)
Balkenende1
Boyer
Breukink
Castella2
Gheorghe
Reibestein
Sherry3
Wijers1
Total attendance rate5

9/9
9/9
2/2
9/9
9/9
4/4
9/9
8/8
1/2
1/2
99%

1
2
3
4

RiCo

AC

NCGcom4

RemCo

5/5
4/5
2/2
5/5
4/5
5/5
93%

4/5
5/5
3/3
5/5
1/1
96%

5/5
5/5
1/1
2/2
1/2
93%

6/6
6/6
6/6
2/2
100%

Balkenende’s and Wijer’s SB membership became effective as of 1 September 2017.
Castella stepped down immediately after the 8 May 2017 AGM.
Sherry stepped down as of 14 September 2017.
NomCo and CoGo became a joint committee (NGCcom) after the 8 May 2017 AGM. The figures represent the aggregate of NomCo, CoGo and
NCGcom.
5 The figures exclude observers. In case an SB member cannot join a meeting, he/she will at all times continue to receive all meeting materials
to allow him/her to provide feedback in advance.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

63

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Report of the Supervisory Board – continued

Also, the (results of the) continuous dialogue between
ING and external supervisors was a standard agenda
item throughout the year.

Permanent education

The annual Supervisory Board Knowledge Day, that took
place on 12 January 2017, focused on the art of banking
in an increasingly digitalised world. On the agenda
were sessions related to transformation management,
cybersecurity, data management, advanced analytics
and ethics, robotics and artificial intelligence. The
Supervisory Board was also updated on developments
regarding ING’s annual talent review achievements,
including a trend analysis.
In September 2017, the Supervisory Board together
with the management board, visited the offices in
Amsterdam and Brussels for three days, allowing it to
get a better understanding of the Benelux business
activities and how these relate and contribute to ING’s
strategy. There was special focus on Orange Bridge, ING’s
transformation programme for ING in the Netherlands
and ING in Belgium. Other sessions included an
economic overview of the Benelux area, an introduction
to ING’s Fintech Village in Brussels and deep dives
on various themes related to ING’s operations in the
Benelux.
A number of other educational sessions on specific
topics were organised for the Supervisory Board
throughout the year, including on corporate governance,
ING’s technology platforms, risk management (with
a focus on the process of pricing assets and liabilities,
and use of external ratings), non-financial risk including
compliance, performance and recognition management,
as well as on remuneration practices, ECB supervision,
the (potential impact of) new regulation (such as
‘Basel IV’, IFRS 9/15/16 and the Payment Services
Directive 2), non-financial risk, partnering with fintechs,
transformation management, and sustainability
focusing on how ING contributes to accelerating financial
empowerment.

further grow primary customers and lending, and
increase efficiency. Other aspects of the programme
were discussed and approved. Important drivers of
the programme were addressed, such as the future
of banking, the journey of convergence, maintaining
commercial momentum, how to fund and drive the
transformation and risk management. The Supervisory
Board acknowledges it is important to take into account
the duty of care towards those stakeholders of the bank
who may be impacted by the transition.

Financial and risk reporting

ING’s Annual Report, for the third time in integrated
form, was reviewed and the annual accounts and the
SOX 404 Report (in relation to our Annual Report on Form
20-F) were approved. Also approved was the proposal to
pay a final 2016 dividend of EUR 0.66 per share based
on the fact that ING is comfortably ahead of prevailing
fully-loaded requirements and well positioned for future
regulatory uncertainties. The dividend proposal was
approved by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
on 8 May 2017. The quarterly results were reviewed
and discussed in January, May, August and October
2017, including the relevant press releases. The fullyear financial results were discussed in March. These
discussions included the related press releases and
also reports from the external auditor. The Executive
Board’s assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness
of the risk management and control systems was also
discussed. The payment of an interim 2017 dividend of
EUR 0.24 per ordinary share, which was declared on 2
August 2017, was also discussed.
The (draft) agenda for the 2018 Annual General Meeting
was discussed and approved, including the publication of
the booklet on the 2017 application of the Dutch Banking
Code and the new Dutch Corporate Governance Code.

In 2017, ING continued to work on implementing its
Think Forward strategy based on long-term value
creation. In late 2016, ING announced it would
accelerate the implementation of the strategy, focusing
on investing in our digital transformation, creating a
scalable banking platform and realising EUR 900 million
of gross cost savings by 2021.

The Supervisory Board approved the annual review of the
risk appetite framework that reflects recent regulatory
changes. This included updates to the solvency risk
appetite statements (RASs) taking into account the draft
Supervisory Review and the draft ECB SREP decision.
Also, the sector concentration RAS was added as this
was a new boundary in the new system in which RASs
are divided into boundaries and supporting instruments.
The Supervisory Board was informed in detail throughout
the year of the potential risks for ING, including
those relating to Brexit and to political and economic
developments in various countries and regions, and
discussed how these could best be mitigated.

The global transformation programme approved in 2016
was further developed to realise the acceleration of the
Think Forward strategy. The basic starting point of the
programme was ING’s value proposition, captured in
multiple work streams.

KPMG, in its role as ING’s external auditor, audited ING’s
2017 accounts and financial statements. As part of the
standard procedures, KPMG declared itself independent
from ING, in compliance with applicable rules and
regulations.

Throughout the year, the Supervisory Board discussed
the progress of this programme and, as part of this,
had an active dialogue with the management board.
ING’s strategy, together with the transformation
programme, includes an overarching view and a number
of initiatives to further improve the customer experience,

Throughout the year the Supervisory Board was updated
on and discussed regulatory risk including the associated
operational and anticipated financial impact. Since
the start of ECB supervision the increase in regulatory
reporting has been significant. Reporting timelines have
become shorter and the granularity of the data being

Strategy based on long-term value creation

ING Group Annual Report 2017

64

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Report of the Supervisory Board – continued

requested has increased. In addition, local requirements
need to be met. ING aims to safeguard that all reporting
processes and data quality remains up to standard. The
aggregate impact of upcoming regulatory reporting
and additional capital requirements is expected to be
substantial. The Supervisory Board also received updates
on the possible impact on ING of the new Dutch coalition
agreement.

Internal Supervisory Board meetings

During the internal meetings of the Supervisory Board
in 2017 (with the CEO in attendance, except when
the annual self-evaluation of the Supervisory Board
or matters concerning the CEO were discussed), the
Executive Board and Management Board Banking
performance assessments were discussed and
approved. The variable remuneration proposals for the
employees in scope were also discussed and decided
on. Furthermore the Executive Board and Management
Board Banking annual targets were reviewed and
approved.
The future composition of the Executive Board, the
Management Board Banking and the Supervisory
Board, its committees and potential candidates were
a recurring topic of discussion in light of various
developments. ING’s talent and succession planning
were also discussed including the outcome of the Annual
Talent Review. Remuneration was another recurring
agenda item. The Supervisory Board approved the
update of ING’s Remuneration Regulations Framework
2017 in line with various regulatory changes.
The Supervisory Board self-assessment was also on the
agenda. The action points resulting from last year’s
self-assessment were acted upon during the year. As in
previous years, an independent external party facilitated
the 2017 self-assessment process for the (members of
the) Supervisory Board and its committees by drafting
the questionnaires as well as the reports with the
results. The questionnaires were based on those from
the previous year and were designed in such a way that
a comparison between two consecutive years could be
made. As in 2016, input was also requested from several
executives who regularly interact with the Supervisory
Board and attend Supervisory Board meetings. Following
completion of the questionnaires in December 2017,
bilateral meetings were held in January 2018 between
the chairman of the Supervisory Board and each
member. For the chairman, the vice-chairman held a
meeting with the other Supervisory Board members
before a bilateral meeting was held between the vicechairman and the chairman. The respective committee
results were then discussed in each committee meeting,
with the overall results and conclusions being discussed
in the internal Supervisory Board meeting (without
the Executive Board and Management Board Banking
members present). In general, the performance of the
committees was rated highly and the performance of
the Supervisory Board was considered to at least have
been maintained and even improved in several areas
since last year’s review. A number of suggestions were
made as priorities for improving the performance of
the Supervisory Board over the coming year, such as
ING Group Annual Report 2017

65

increasing the focus on business issues, having more indepth discussion time, and addressing the delegation of
matters to be dealt with between the Supervisory Board
and its committees. Additional key priorities identified
were continued close monitoring and assessment of the
developments in the regulatory and external supervision
landscape as well as in the areas of non-financial risk,
compliance and internal control. Attention will also
continue to be paid to the Supervisory Board’s role as
challenger and counterbalance to the Executive and
Management Board.

Audit Committee meetings

The Audit Committee met five times in 2017. On
average, 96 percent of the members were present at the
scheduled meetings.
The Audit Committee discussed the quarterly results,
the interim accounts and the annual accounts. Key
audit matters, as included in the auditors’ reports and
management letter were also a topic of discussion.
In addition to the financial results and accounts, the
subjects of the Audit Committee’s regular deliberations
also included financial reporting, auditor’s independence
and fees, the overall internal control environment, the
internal controls over financial reporting, the internal
and external auditor reports, the management letter,
and capital management-related matters. The Audit
Committee also reviewed the press releases related
to the periodic results, the Annual Report, the 6-K and
20-F forms and the SOX404 Report, and discussed and
approved the internal audit plan.
Specific attention was paid to a variety of other, related
topics, such as IFRS 9 and legal proceedings, remediating
open control deficiencies in the areas of for example
user access and change management, loan loss
provisioning and suspense accounts, as well as nonfinancial risk relevant for the financial reporting, and the
capital adequacy and liquidity adequacy statements
on ING’s capital and liquidity position. In addition the
updated internal audit charter, the annual assessment
of the internal audit function, the financial control
enhancement plan, the quarterly whistleblower report
and the auditor reports were areas of attention.
All relevant items discussed by the Audit Committee
were reported to the Supervisory Board, with the
Supervisory Board approving those items as required
from a governance perspective. Directly following the
Audit Committee meetings, the members of the Audit
Committee met with the internal and external auditors
to seek confirmation that all relevant topics were
discussed in the Audit Committee meetings. In addition
to the Audit Committee meetings, the chairman of
the Audit Committee regularly held separate sessions
with the independent external auditor, the head of the
Corporate Audit Services department and the CFO. He
also met with different senior managers.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Report of the Supervisory Board – continued

Risk Committee meetings

The Risk Committee met five times in 2017, compared
with four times in previous years. On average,
93 percent of the members were present at the
scheduled meetings. As with the meetings of the other
committees, all relevant items discussed by the Risk
Committee were reported to the Supervisory Board, with
the Supervisory Board approving those items as required
from a governance perspective.
In each Risk Committee meeting both the financial and
non-financial risk reports were discussed, including the
status of ING’s metrics with regard to solvency, liquidity,
credit risk, country risk, market risk and non-financial/
compliance risk. Stress-testing scenarios, including
the impact of Brexit and of a potential break-up of the
eurozone were also discussed.
Furthermore, in 2017 the Risk Committee discussed
the updates of the bank-wide Know Your Customer
enhancement programme, IT risk within risk appetite,
and the status of the criminal investigation by Dutch
authorities, as well as the related information request
from US authorities, regarding various requirements
related to client on-boarding, money laundering
and corrupt practices. The latter continues to be
an important topic for ING. While transforming its
organisation, ING needs to ensure that critical nonfinancial risk areas stay top of mind. It needs to continue
to build a strong foundation with structural solutions so
it lives up to the trust our clients and society at large put
in ING.
The alignment of responsibilities of the Risk Committee
and the Remuneration Committee were also discussed
resulting in an updated remuneration regulations
framework.
A wide range of other topics were discussed, such as
the annual review of the risk appetite. In relation to the
Risk Appetite Framework, the solvency risk appetite
statements (RASs) were updated taking into account the
draft ECB SREP decision. Also, the sector concentration
RAS was added, as this was a new boundary in the new
system in which RASs are divided into boundaries and
supporting instruments. Other topics were leveraged
finance, the bank-wide Know Your Customer programme,
and the remuneration regulations framework (for the risk
elements). Also, other future risks and various stresstest scenarios were examined, ranging from regulatory
uncertainty to continued low interest rates.
The number and importance of topics dealt with led
to there being an additional Risk Committee meeting
in 2017. It was agreed to continue this practice in
the future. During this extra meeting, risk modelling
developments and their potential capital impact and
model validation, the assessment of the effectiveness
of ING risk functions, and the results of the continuous
dialogue between ING and external supervisors related
to risk management were discussed.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

66

As a standard practice, the annual risk appetite
statements, now also including one for business risk,
were reviewed and approved.
Read more in the ‘Risk and capital management’
chapter and the Risk section in the Annual Accounts.

Nomination and Corporate Governance
Committee meetings

It was decided to merge the Nomination Committee
and Corporate Governance Committee as per 9 May
2017. This is in line with the practice at other institutions
that have comparable board meeting governance and
structures in place. A separate Corporate Governance
committee was created several years ago in connection
with the corporate governance review whose
recommendations were approved by the AGM in 2016,
following which there was no longer a need for
such separate committee. Before this merger, the
Nomination Committee met once, with no absentees.
The Corporate Governance Committee also met once,
with no absentees. After the merger, the Nomination
and Corporate Governance Committee met an additional
three times in 2017. On average, 93 percent of the
members were present at the scheduled meetings.
The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee
discussed future succession scenarios in general terms
for the Executive Board and the Management Board
Banking, as well as the future composition of the
Supervisory Board. Various diversity-related aspects were
taken into account, such as the minimum and optimal
size of a Supervisory Board combined with a sound and
reasonable balance in representation of geographies,
gender, and financial and generalist expertise. Several
potential candidates were discussed for various
positions, taking ING’s diversity policy into account.
Following the unexpected early resignation of Ms
Ann Sherry as Supervisory Board member from 14
September 2017 because of personal circumstances,
the Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee
started the process of finding a successor. In cooperation
with an external agency, a short list of potential
candidates was compiled. Finding a suitable candidate
is challenging, as various requirements must be met
in relation to the composition of the Supervisory
Board, regulatory requirements, outside positions,
independence, no conflicts of interest, availability, etc.
In addition, the outcomes of the Annual Talent Review
were discussed. The approach for this year’s process
was shared with the Supervisory Board and the 2016
results were discussed in January 2017. Both the process
and reporting had improved, resulting in increased
transparency. Improving diversity at the higher
management levels, senior management succession
planning and accelerating refreshment continued
to be focus areas. Special attention was also paid to
performance management and how to enhance the
process and its effectiveness by fostering continuous
conversations between managers and employees
throughout the year. Attention was also paid specifically
to regrettable losses among senior managers who left
ING in 2017 for various reasons.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Report of the Supervisory Board – continued

In 2017, the Committee discussed the agenda for the
2017 Annual General Meeting and the proposed topics
for the 2018 Annual General Meeting, including the
publication of the booklet on the application of the Dutch
Banking Code.
During the year the Committee also discussed
the (implementation of the) new Dutch Corporate
Governance Code. The final version of the revised code
was published on 8 December 2016 and was embedded
in Dutch law on 7 September 2017. The implications for
ING were assessed in 2017 and have been embedded in
ING’s governance to the extent needed and applicable.
Furthermore, the Committee discussed Executive Board,
Management Board Banking and Supervisory Board
charters that were updated in the light of the new Dutch
Corporate Governance Code requirements. Also the
profiles of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board
were updated due to new Dutch Corporate Governance
Code requirements. This will be added as a discussion
item to the agenda of the Annual General Meeting on
23 April 2018.
The committee also discussed the results of the
continuous dialogue between ING and external
supervisors related to corporate governance, and in
order to meet the requirements of various stakeholders
a diversity and competence matrix was developed for
members of the Executive Board, Management Board
Banking and Supervisory Board to show the various
elements in the composition of these boards (see
page 69). Furthermore, an updated version of the ECB
suitability matrix was assessed. This can be used when
proposing new executive and non-executive board
members for appointment.

Remuneration Committee meetings

In 2017, the Remuneration Committee met six times. On
average, 100 percent of the members were present at
the scheduled meetings.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the thresholds
above which the pool for variable remuneration may
be used for actually granting variable remuneration. It
discussed the variable remuneration pool and reviewed
the performance assessment for the Executive Board
and Management Board Banking, as well as the variable
remuneration proposals. The remuneration proposals for
Identified Staff were also reviewed, including potential
cases for holdback of deferred compensation by way of
malus. In addition, the proposed annual targets for the
Executive Board and the Management Board Banking
members were approved.
Furthermore, the Committee discussed the application of
a variable remuneration cap of 200 percent (instead of
100 percent) for select (no more than one percent
of) ING global staff, as approved in the 2017 Annual
General Meeting. Furthermore, the deferral period of the
variable remuneration in the remuneration policy for
members of the Executive Board needed to be amended
from three years to five years in accordance with EBA
guidelines, which was also brought to the attention of
ING Group Annual Report 2017

67

stakeholders during the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The ING Bank remuneration regulations framework was
updated as part of an annual review. This included the
alignment of responsibilities of the Risk Committee and
the Remuneration Committee in light of regulatory
changes. In light of the renewal of the CLA and the
employee changes in the Netherlands, the social plan
was also discussed. Furthermore, the disclosure of the
CEO pay ratio was discussed and approved for inclusion
in this Annual Report, following the requirements of the
new Dutch Corporate Governance Code.
Throughout the year the Remuneration Committee
approved Identified Staff/High Earner-related
remuneration matters, based on ING’s accompanying
governance framework.

Composition of the Executive and the
Management Board Banking

At the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2017, two
changes to the Executive Board were proposed and
approved. Koos Timmermans was appointed as Executive
Board member to succeed Patrick Flynn as CFO as per
8 May 2017, immediately following the Annual General
Meeting. Steven van Rijswijk was appointed as Executive
Board member as per 8 May 2017, immediately
following the Annual General Meeting. He succeeded
Wilfred Nagel as CRO as per 1 August 2017. Furthermore,
Ralph Hamers was reappointed as CEO for four additional
years. On 8 May 2017 Roland Boekhout was appointed
as member of the Management Board Banking, to
succeed Koos Timmermans as head of Market Leaders,
immediately following the Annual General Meeting.

Composition of the Supervisory Board

At the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2017, Isabel
Martín Castellá stepped down, having reached the ING
age limit for Supervisory Board members. Furthermore,
Hans Wijers, Jan Peter Balkenende and Margarete Haase
were appointed to the Supervisory Board. Jan Peter
Balkenende started as an observer per 9 May 2017. His
membership became effective (i.e. granted voting power)
as per 1 September 2017. He also became a member
of the Risk Committee. The membership of Hans Wijers
became effective per 1 September 2017 and he then
also became a member of the Audit Committee, the
Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee,
and Remuneration Committee. As per 1 October 2017,
Margarete Haase has been present as an observer at the
meetings of the Audit Committee, Supervisory Board
and Internal Supervisory Board. Her membership will
become effective as per 1 May 2018. By then she will
have reduced her (non) executive directorships meeting
the CRD IV requirements. Margarete Haase has also
completed an extensive induction programme.
Robert Reibestein and Hermann-Josef Lamberti were
reappointed; the appointment term will end as per the
end of the 2021 Annual General Meeting. Jeroen van
der Veer was reappointed; the appointment term will
end as per the end of the 2018 Annual General meeting
as it is the intention of the Supervisory Board that Hans
Wijers will succeed Jeroen van der Veer as chairman of
the Supervisory Board at that time. In 2017, Ann Sherry
became a member of the Nomination and Corporate

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Report of the Supervisory Board – continued

Eric Boyer de la Giroday

Mariana Gheorghe

Hermann-Josef Lamberti

Robert Reibestein

Jeroen van der Veer

Henk Breukink

Hans Wijers

Margarete Haase (per 1 May 2018)

Jan Peter Balkenende

Governance Committee and remained in that position
until her unexpected resignation as an ING Supervisory
Board member per 14 September 2017 because of
personal circumstances. A suitable replacement is (still)
being searched for.
Furthermore, during 2017 all three newly appointed
members to the Supervisory Board completed an
extensive, tailor-made induction programme as agreed
upon with the ECB. As an enhancement to the previous
induction programmes, this year external experts, in
addition to internal experts, also contributed to the
programme.
Read more in the ‘Corporate governance’ chapter on
the composition of the Supervisory Board committees
at year-end 2017.

The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee
and the Supervisory Board will continue to strive for an
adequate and balanced composition of the Supervisory
Board when selecting and nominating new members for
appointment, taking into account ING’s diversity policy
and other factors.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

68

The members of the Supervisory Board are requested to
assess annually whether or not they are independent as
set out in the Corporate Governance Code and to confirm
this in writing. On the basis of these criteria, all members
of the Supervisory Board, with the exception of Eric Boyer
de la Giroday, are to be regarded as independent on 31
December 2017. Eric Boyer de la Giroday is considered
not independent because of his position as Chairman of
the Board of Directors of ING Belgium S.A./N.V. and his
former positions as member of the Executive Board of
ING Groep N.V. and vice-chairman of the Management
Board Banking of ING Bank N.V. On the basis of the NYSE
listing standards, all members of the Supervisory Board
are to be regarded as independent.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Report of the Supervisory Board – continued

Diversity and Competence Matrix (as at 31 December 2017)1
Diversity
Name
Management Board
Ralph Hamers
(EB/MBB)
Koos Timmermans
(EB/MBB)
Steven
van Rijswijk
(EB/MBB)
Roland Boekhout
(MBB)
Aris Bogdaneris
(MBB)
Isabel Fernandez
(MBB)
Roel Louwhoff (MBB)
Supervisory Board
Jeroen
van der Veer (chair)
Herman-Josef
Lamberti (vicechair)
Jan Peter
Balkenende
Eric Boyer de
la Giroday
Henk Breukink

Competencies
Banking,
International
Finance,
Experience
Audit, Risk

Year of birth

Gender

Nationality

Executive
Experience

1966

M

Dutch

••

••

1960

M

Dutch

••

1970

M

Dutch

1963

M

1963

Operations
and/or IT

Corporate
Governance

••

•

••

•

••

•

••

••

•

••

•

•

Dutch

••

••

••

•

••

M

Canadian

••

••

••

••

•

1968

F

Spanish

1965

M

Dutch

••
••

••
••

••
•

•
••

•
•

1947

M

Dutch

••

••

•

••

••

1956

M

German

••

•

••

••

•

1956

M

Dutch

•

••

•

•

••

1952

M

Belgian

1950

M

••
•

•
••

••
•

•
•

••
••

••
••
•
••

••
••
••
••

••
••
••
•

•
•
•
••

••
••
•
••

Mariana Gheorghe

1956

F

Dutch
Romanian/
British

Margarete Haase2

1953

F

Austrian

Robert Reibestein

1956

M

Dutch

Hans Wijers

1951

M

Dutch

1
2

This represents the relative positioning of the individual board members in the context of the total board composition.
Ms Haase observer as of 1 October 2017; her SB membership will become effective per 1 May 2018.
• Limited/some to average experience in the area.
• • (Had been) accountable and (had) executed over several years.

Appreciation for the Executive Board
and ING employees

The Supervisory Board would like to thank the members
of the Executive Board and the Management Board
Banking for their hard work in 2017. Important
milestones were the steps taken towards creating a
globally scalable digital platform for customers and
further digitalising our offering. This took place against a
backdrop of increasing regulation, legal and Know Your
Customer requirements.

The Supervisory Board would like to thank all ING
employees for their contribution in realising these
achievements and for continuing to serve the interests of
customers, shareholders and other stakeholders of ING.

Additional information

‘Corporate governance’ chapter and the ‘Remuneration
report’ chapter for more information, which are deemed
to be incorporated by reference here.

Amsterdam, 5 March 2018
The Supervisory Board

ING Group Annual Report 2017

69

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Corporate governance
This chapter reports on the application of the
Dutch Corporate Governance Code effective as
from 1 January 2017, by ING Groep N.V. (‘ING
Group’), including information on ING’s share
capital, control, Executive Board, Supervisory
Board and external auditor.

This chapter, including the parts of this Annual Report
incorporated by reference, with the separate publication
‘ING’s application of the Dutch Corporate Governance
Code’ dated 8 March 2018, (see www.ing.com), together
comprise the ‘corporate governance statement’ as
specified in section 2a of the decree with respect to
the contents of the Annual Report (‘Besluit inhoud
bestuursverslag’)1.

Recent developments
Legislative and regulatory developments

On 8 December 2016, the Monitoring Committee of
the Dutch Corporate Governance Code published the
final version of the revised Corporate Governance Code.
The Corporate Governance Code became effective on 1
January 2017 (‘Corporate Governance Code’). According
to the decree with respect to the contents of the Annual
Report, Dutch listed companies are required to report, on
the basis of ‘apply or explain’ on their application of the
principles and best-practice provisions of the code for
the first time in their annual report for the financial year
2017.

Corporate Governance Codes
Compliance with the Corporate
Governance Code

The Corporate Governance Code is the benchmark for
ING’s corporate governance structure and practices.
The Corporate Governance Code can be
downloaded from the website of the Dutch
Corporate Governance Code Monitoring Committee
www.commissiecorporategovernance.nl.

ING’s application of the Corporate Governance Code is
described in the 2018 publication ‘ING’s application of
the Dutch Corporate Governance Code’, which is available
on the website of ING Group www.ing.com. This is to be
read in conjunction with this section and is deemed to
be incorporated into this section.

Dutch Banking Code

The Dutch Banking Code (‘Banking Code’), a revised
version of which was adopted by the Dutch Banking
Association in 2014, is applicable only to ING Bank
N.V. and not to ING Group. The Banking Code can be
downloaded from the website of the Dutch Banking
Association (www.nvb.nl). Its application by ING Bank

is described in the ‘Application of the Dutch Banking
Code by ING Bank N.V.’, available on ING Group’s website
(www.ing.com). ING Group voluntarily applies the
principles of the Banking Code regarding remuneration
of the members of its Executive Board. ING Group’s
remuneration policy for the Executive Board and senior
management is compliant with these principles.

Differences between Dutch and US
corporate governance practices

In accordance with the requirements of the US Securities
and Exchange Commission, ING Group, as a foreign
private issuer whose securities are listed on the New
York Stock Exchange (‘NYSE’), must disclose in its Annual
Report on Form 20-F any significant differences between
its corporate governance practices and those applicable
to US domestic companies under NYSE listing standards.
ING Group believes the following to be the significant
differences between its corporate governance practices
and the NYSE corporate governance rules applicable to
US companies:
• ING Group has a two-tier board structure, in contrast
to the one-tier board structure used by most US
companies. In the Netherlands, a public limited
liability company (‘naamloze vennootschap’) with
a two-tier board structure has an executive board
as its management body and a supervisory board
that advises and supervises the executive board.
Supervisory board members are often former state or
business leaders and sometimes former members of
the executive board. A member of the executive board
or other officer or employee of the company cannot
simultaneously be a member of the supervisory
board. The supervisory board must approve specified
decisions of the executive board. Under the Corporate
Governance Code, all members of the supervisory
board, with the exception of not more than one
person, should be independent. The definition of
independence under the Corporate Governance Code
however differs in its details from the definitions of
independence under the NYSE listing standards. In
some cases, Dutch requirements are stricter; in other
cases the NYSE listing standards are stricter. The
Risk Committee, Audit Committee, Nomination and
Corporate Governance Committee, and Remuneration
Committee of ING Group are comprised of members of
the Supervisory Board.
• In contrast to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the
Corporate Governance Code contains an ‘apply-orexplain’ principle, offering the possibility of deviating
from the Code.
• Consistent with Dutch law, supervisory board
committees generally act only in an advisory capacity
to the supervisory board and, for instance, ING’s
Remuneration Committee may not directly set the
compensation of the CEO.
• Dutch law requires that ING Group’s external auditors
be appointed by the General Meeting and not by the
Audit Committee.

1 Dutch Bulletin of Acts (Staatsblad) 2004, 747, most recently amended with effect from 1 January 2018: Dutch Bulletin of Acts 2017, 332.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

70

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Corporate governance – continued

• The articles of association of ING Group (‘Articles
of Association’) provide that there are no quorum
requirements to hold a General Meeting, although
certain shareholder actions and certain resolutions
may require a quorum.
• The shareholder approval requirements for equity
compensation plans under Dutch law and the
Corporate Governance Code differ from those
applicable to US companies that are subject to
NYSE’s listing rules. These require a shareholder vote
on all equity compensation plans applicable to any
employee, director or other service provider of a
company. The results of such votes are advisory in
nature rather than binding. Under Dutch company
law and the Corporate Governance Code, binding
shareholder approval is only required for equity
compensation plans (or changes thereto) for members
of the executive board and supervisory board, and
not for equity compensation plans for other groups of
employees.

Capital
Capital structure

The authorised capital of ING Group consists of ordinary
shares and cumulative preference shares. Currently,
only ordinary shares are issued, while a call option to
acquire cumulative preference shares has been granted
to the ING Continuity Foundation (‘Stichting Continuïteit
ING’). The acquisition of cumulative preference shares
pursuant to the call option is subject to the restriction
that, immediately after the issuance of cumulative
preference shares, the total amount of cumulative
preference shares outstanding may not exceed onethird of the total issued share capital of ING Group (see
page 84). The purpose of this call option is to protect
the independence, the continuity and the identity of
ING Group against influences that are contrary to the
interests of ING Group, its enterprise and the enterprises
of its subsidiaries and all stakeholders (including, but
not limited to, hostile takeovers). However, the ordinary
shares are not used for protective purposes.
The board of the ING Continuity Foundation is comprised
of four members who are independent of ING Group. No
(former) Executive Board member, (former) Supervisory
Board member, (former) ING Group employee or (former)
permanent adviser to ING Group is on the board of
the ING Continuity Foundation. The Board of the ING
Continuity Foundation appoints its own members, after
consultation with the Supervisory Board of ING Group,
but without any requirement for approval by ING Group.
Read more in the ‘ING Continuity Foundation’ chapter.

ING Group’s authorised capital is the maximum amount
of capital allowed to be issued under the terms of the
Articles of Association. New shares in excess of this
amount can only be issued if the Articles of Association
are amended. For reasons of flexibility and to meet
the requirement as set forth in the Bank Resolution
and Recovery Directive (‘BRRD’) that the amount of
authorised share capital should at all times be sufficient
to permit the issuance of as many ordinary shares as
required for a potential future bail-in, ING Group seeks
ING Group Annual Report 2017

71

to continue the authorised capital in the Articles of
Association at the highest level permitted by law, which
is five times the actually issued share capital.

Issuance of shares

Share issuances are decided by the General Meeting,
which may also delegate its authority. Each year, a
proposal is made to the General Meeting to delegate
authority to the Executive Board to issue new ordinary
shares or to grant rights to subscribe to new ordinary
shares, both with and without pre-emptive rights for
existing shareholders.
The set-up and content of the currently applicable share
issue authorisation have been discussed with many
investors, proxy advisors and other stakeholders and
ING has taken into account their feedback. It enables
the Executive Board to issue ordinary shares (including
the granting of rights to subscribe for ordinary shares,
such as warrants or in connection with convertible debt
instruments) for a period of 18 months, ending on 8
November 2018:
1 Up to 40 percent of the issued share capital in
connection with a rights issue, being a share
offering to all shareholders in proportion to their
existing holdings of ordinary shares as nearly as
may be practical. However, the Executive Board and
Supervisory Board may exclude certain shareholders
from such a share offering for practical or legal
reasons such as record dates, fractional entitlements,
treasury shares, applicable legal restrictions on share
offerings or in the context of a syndicated rights issue;
plus
2 Up to 10 percent of the issued share capital, with or
without pre-emptive rights of existing shareholders.
Specific approval by the General Meeting is required for
any share issuance exceeding these limits.
The purpose of this share issue authorisation is to
delegate the power to issue new ordinary shares to
the Executive Board. Accordingly, the Executive Board
is authorised to issue new ordinary shares without
first having to obtain the consent of the General
Meeting – which in the Netherlands is subject to a
statutory convocation period of at least 42 days. This
authorisation gives the ING Group flexibility in managing
its capital resources, including regulatory capital, while
taking into account shareholders’ interests to prevent
dilution of their shares. It particularly enables ING Group
to respond promptly to developments in the financial
markets, should circumstances so require. The Executive
Board and the Supervisory Board consider it in the
best interests of ING Group to have the flexibility this
authorisation provides.
This authorisation may be used for any purpose,
including but not limited to strengthening capital,
financing, mergers or acquisitions. However, the
authorisation to issue ordinary shares by way of rights
issue cannot be used for mergers or acquisitions on a
stock-for-stock basis as this is incompatible with the
concept of pre-emptive rights for existing shareholders.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Corporate governance – continued

In line with market practice, ING Group currently intends
to include the following categories of shareholders in
such a rights issue:
1 Qualified investors as well as retail investors in the
Netherlands and the US (SEC registered offering);
2 Qualified investors in EU member states;
3 Retail investors in EU member states where ING
has a significant retail investor base, provided
that it is feasible to meet local requirements (in
ING’s 2009 rights offering, shares were offered to
existing shareholders in Belgium, France, Germany,
Luxembourg, Spain and the UK, where ING believed
the vast majority of retail investors were located at
that time);
4 Qualified or institutional investors in Canada and
Australia.

Pursuant to this authorisation, no more than 10 percent
of ING Group’s share capital may be held as treasury
shares. When repurchasing shares, the Executive
Board must observe the price ranges prescribed in the
authorisation. For the ordinary shares , the authorisation
currently in force stipulates a minimum price of one
eurocent and a maximum price equal to the highest
stock price on the Amsterdam stock exchange on the
date on which the purchase agreement is concluded or
on the preceding day of stock market trading.

Retail investors in Canada and Australia and investors in
Japan will not be included in such a share offering.

Pursuant to the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (‘Wet
op het financieel toezicht’), any person who, directly
or indirectly, acquires or disposes of an interest in
the voting rights and/or the capital of ING Group as a
result of which acquisition or disposal the percentage
of his voting rights or capital interest, whether through
ownership of shares, American depositary shares (‘ADR’)
or any other financial instrument, whether stock-settled
or cash-settled, such as call or put options, warrants,
swaps or any other similar contract, reaches, exceeds
or falls below certain thresholds, is required to notify in
writing the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets
(‘Autoriteit Financiële Markten’) immediately after the
acquisition or disposal of the triggering interest in ING
Group’s share capital. These thresholds are 3%, 5%, 10%,
15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 75% or 95% of
the issued share capital of ING Group. The notification
will be recorded in a public register that is held by the
Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets.

Shareholders who are not allowed to, do not elect to, or
are unable to subscribe to a rights offering, are entitled
to sell their rights in the market or receive any net
financial benefit upon completion of a rump offering
after the exercise period has ended.
The share issue authorisation that will be proposed to
the 2018 Annual General Meeting will be along the same
lines as the currently applicable authorisation described
above.

Transfer of shares and transfer restrictions

Shares not included in the Securities Giro Transfer system
(‘Wet Giraal Effectenverkeer’ system) are transferred
by means of a deed of transfer between the transferor
and the transferee. To become effective, ING Group has
to acknowledge the transfer, unless ING Group itself is
a party to the transfer. The Articles of Association do
not restrict the transfer of ordinary shares whereas the
transfer of cumulative preference shares is subject to
prior approval of the Executive Board. ING Group is not
aware of the existence of any agreement pursuant
to which the transfer of ordinary shares or depositary
receipts for such shares is restricted.
Shares that are included in the Securities Giro Transfer
system are transferred pursuant to the Securities
Giro Transfer Act (‘Wet Giraal Effectenverkeer’). A
shareholder who wishes to transfer such shares, must
instruct the securities intermediary where his shares are
administered accordingly.

Repurchase of shares

ING Group may repurchase issued shares. Although the
power to repurchase shares is vested in the Executive
Board subject to the approval of the Supervisory
Board, prior authorisation from the General Meeting is
required for these repurchases. Under Dutch law, this
authorisation lapses after 18 months. Each year, a
proposal is made to the General Meeting to authorise the
repurchase of shares by the Executive Board.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

72

Special rights of control

No special rights of control referred to in Article 10 of the
directive of the European Parliament and the Council on
takeover bids (2004/25/EC) are attached to any share.

Shareholders’ structure

Details of investors, if any, who have reported their
interest in ING Group pursuant to the Dutch Financial
Supervision Act (or the predecessor of this legislation),
are shown on page 52.
ING Group is not aware of any investors (or potential
shareholders) with an interest of three percent or more
in ING Group other than those shown on page 52 as per
year-end 2017.
Pursuant to Regulation (EU) no. 236/2012 of the
European Parliament and the Council on short-selling
and certain aspects of credit default swaps, any person
who acquires or disposes of a net short position relating
to the issued share capital of ING Group, whether by
a transaction in shares or ADRs, or by a transaction
creating or relating to any financial instrument where
the effect or one of the effects of the transaction is to
confer a financial advantage on the person entering into
that transaction in the event of a change in the price of
such shares or ADRs, is required to notify, in accordance
with the provisions of the above-mentioned regulation:
a. The Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets if, as a
result of such acquisition or disposal the person’s net
short position reaches, exceeds or falls below 0.2% of
the issued share capital of ING Group and each 0.1%
above that.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Corporate governance – continued

b. ING Group if, as a result of such acquisition or disposal
the person’s net short position reaches, exceeds or
falls below 0.5% of the issued share capital of ING
Group and each 0.1% above that.

Investor Relations and bilateral
contacts with investors

ING Group encourages and recognises the importance
of bilateral communication with the investment
community. The Investor Relations department actively
manages communications with current and potential
shareholders, holders of ADRs, bondholders, industry
analysts and rating agencies.
ING Group strives to provide clear, accurate and timely
financial information that is in strict compliance with
applicable rules and regulations, in particular those
concerning selective disclosure, inside information
and equal treatment. In addition to the Annual
General Meeting, ING Group may communicate with
its shareholders, the investment community and the
general public through earnings announcements,
presentations and meetings with analysts, investors and
the press.
ING Group publishes a comprehensive quarterly
disclosure package that includes extensive and detailed
financial figures with relevant explanatory remarks.
This information is discussed thoroughly on the day
of the earnings release during media, analyst and
investor conference calls. These are broadly accessible
to interested parties. The publication dates of quarterly
earnings releases are announced in advance on ING
Group’s website.
ING Group participates in several industry conferences
and generally hosts one Investor Relations Day every
two to three years. These events are announced in
advance on ING Group’s website, and presentation
materials are made available in real time on the
website. This is in accordance with the applicable
regulatory requirements intended to ensure that all
shareholders and other market participants have equal
and simultaneous access to information that could
potentially influence the price of ING Group’s securities.
ING Group’s Investor Relations Days can be accessed
by means of live webcasts. Investor Relations Days or
conferences in which ING Group participates will not
take place during the period immediately prior to the
publication of quarterly financial results.
ING Group strives to maintain an open and constructive
dialogue with current and potential investors, and
with industry analysts. The scope of such bilateral
communication may range from single investor queries
via email, to more elaborate discussions with analysts
or institutional investors that take place via telephone or
face to face. ING Group’s Investor Relations department
is the main point of contact for these communications.
Executive Board members or Management Board
Banking or divisional management members may also
participate in investor meetings. These meetings are
not announced in advance, nor can they be followed
by webcast or any other means. Information provided
ING Group Annual Report 2017

73

during such occasions or in any contacts with the press
is limited to what is already publicly available.
If bilateral communication between ING Group and
investors is organised and/or facilitated through a broker,
an analyst or specialist salesperson representing the
broker may be present in the meeting.
In the event that any inside information is inadvertently
disclosed during any bilateral contacts, it is ING Group’s
policy, in accordance with applicable regulations, to
publish such information as soon as possible.
ING Group may decide not to accommodate or accept
any requests or invitations to enter into a dialogue with
potential investors, or to accommodate or accept such
request or invitation under specific conditions. ING does
not initiate bilateral contacts or contacts with the press
during the period immediately prior to publication of
regular quarterly results.
Approximately 25 analysts actively cover and generally
issue reports on ING Group. A list of these analysts
can be found under ‘Analyst Coverage’ in the Investor
Relations section of ING Group’s website. During 2017,
ING Group did not provide any form of compensation
to parties that are directly or indirectly involved in the
production or publication of analysts’ reports, with the
exception of credit-rating agencies.
ING Group participated in 18 industry conferences during
2017. In total, there were approximately 800 meetings
(including conference calls) with institutional investors
and/or analysts during 2017. Conference presentations
and face-to-face meetings with investors and/or analysts
took place in 37 different cities across the globe.
The geographical distribution of ING Group’s investor
base is diverse: an estimated 33% of our shares are
held in the United States, 23% in the United Kingdom,
13% France, 10% Germany, 4% in the Netherlands, 1%
Switzerland, 13% in Rest of Europe and 3% in Rest of the
World. These figures are based year-end 2017 estimates
of institutional share ownership provided by IPREO.
Read more in the ‘ING Shares’ chapter.

General Meeting
Frequency, notice and agenda of
General Meetings

ING’s General Meeting is normally held each year in April
or May to discuss the course of business in the preceding
financial year on the basis of the reports prepared by
the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, and to
decide on:
• The distribution of dividends or other distributions;
• The appointment and/or reappointment of members
of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board;
• Any other items requiring shareholder approval
pursuant to Dutch law; and
• Any other matters proposed by the Supervisory Board,
the Executive Board or shareholders in accordance with
the Articles of Association.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Corporate governance – continued

General Meetings are convened by public notice via
the ING Group website (www.ing.com) at least 42 days
before the day of the General Meeting.
As provided in the Dutch Civil Code, implementing the
BRRD, ING Group’s Articles of Association permit this
convocation period to shorten to 10 days if (i) ING Group
meets the criteria for early intervention measures, (ii)
resolution can be avoided by means of a capital increase,
and (iii) a general meeting would be required to enable
ING Group to issue the required number of shares.
As of the date of convening a General Meeting, all
information relevant for shareholders is made available
via the ING Group website and through its head office.
Information relevant for shareholders includes the notice
of the General Meeting, the agenda, the place and time
of the meeting, the address of the website of ING Group,
the verbatim text of the proposals with an explanation
and instructions on how to participate in the meeting
(either in person or by proxy), as well as the reports of
the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board. More
complex proposals, such as proposals to amend the
Articles of Association, are normally not included in the
notice, but are made available separately on the website
of ING Group and at the ING Group head office.

Proposals by shareholders

Proposals to include items on the agenda for a General
Meeting that have been adequately substantiated under
applicable Dutch law can be made by shareholders
representing together at least one per cent of the issued
share capital.

Dialogue with shareholders

Shareholders are given the opportunity to contact ING
about the Annual General Meeting, via the Annual
General Meeting dedicated web page on the website of
ING Group (www.ing.com).

Record date

Pursuant to Dutch law, the record date for attending a
general meeting and voting on the proposals at that
general meeting is the 28th day before the day of the
general meeting. Only those who hold shares at the
record date are entitled to attend the general meeting
and to exercise other rights related to the general
meeting in question on the basis of their holding at
the record date, notwithstanding any subsequent sale
or purchase of shares. The record date is published in
the notice for the general meeting. If the shortened
convocation of 10 days is applicable (see above,
paragraph: ‘Frequency, notice and agenda of General
Meetings’), the record date is two days after the
convocation date.
In accordance with US requirements, the depositary sets
a record date for the ADRs, which date determines which
ADR are entitled to give voting instructions. This record
date can differ from the record date set by ING Group for
shareholders.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

74

Attending General Meetings

Holders of ordinary shares may attend a General
Meeting in person, or may grant a proxy in writing to a
third party to attend the meeting and to vote on their
behalf. Prior to a General Meeting, ING will make proxy
forms available on its website. For logistical reasons,
attending the General Meeting, either in person or by
proxy, is subject to the requirement that ING Group
is notified in advance. Instructions to that effect are
included in the notice for the General Meeting.
General Meetings are webcast via ING Group’s website
www.ing.com, so that shareholders who do not attend
the General Meeting in person may nevertheless follow
the meeting online.

Voting rights on shares

Each share entitles the holder to cast one vote at the
General Meeting. The Articles of Association do not
restrict the voting rights on any class of shares. ING
Group is not aware of any agreement pursuant to which
voting rights on any class of its shares are restricted.

Proxy voting facilities

ING Group provides proxy voting facilities to its investors
via its website and solicits proxies from its ADR holders in
line with common practice in the US.
Proxy voting forms for shareholders are made available
on the website of ING Group (www.ing.com). By
returning the form, shareholders will give a proxy to an
independent proxy holder (a public notary registered
in the Netherlands) who will vote according to the
instructions expressly given on the proxy form.
The submission of these forms is subject to additional
conditions specified on such forms.
To encourage participation at the Annual General
Meeting, ING provides the EVO (e-voting) platform, an
online facility through which shareholders can register
for a meeting or appoint a proxy.

Main powers of the General Meeting
The main powers of the General Meeting are to
decide on:

• The appointment, suspension and dismissal of
members of the Executive Board and members of the
Supervisory Board, subject to a binding nomination or
a proposal of the Supervisory Board as set forth in the
Articles of Association.
• The adoption of the annual accounts.
• The declaration of dividends, subject to the power of
the Executive Board to allocate part or all of the profits
to the reserves – with approval of the Supervisory
Board – and the declaration of other distributions,
subject to a proposal by the Executive Board and
approved by the Supervisory Board.
• The appointment of the external auditor.
• An amendment of the Articles of Association, a legal
merger or division of ING Group, and winding-up of ING
Group, all subject to a proposal made by the Executive
Board with approval by the Supervisory Board.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Corporate governance – continued

• The issuance of shares or rights to subscribe for shares,
the restriction or exclusion of pre-emptive rights of
shareholders, and delegation of these powers to the
Executive Board, subject to a proposal by the Executive
Board which has been approved by the Supervisory
Board.
• The authorisation of a repurchase of outstanding
shares and/or a cancellation of shares.
In addition, the approval of the General Meeting is
required for Executive Board decisions that would be
expected to have a material effect on the identity or
nature of ING Group or its enterprise.

Reporting

Resolutions adopted at a General Meeting are generally
published on the website of ING Group (www.ing.com),
within one week following the meeting. In accordance
with the Corporate Governance Code, the draft
minutes of the General Meeting are made available
to shareholders on the website of ING Group
(www.ing.com) no later than three months after the
meeting. Shareholders may react to the draft minutes in
the following three months, after which the final minutes
are adopted by the chairman of the meeting in question
and by a shareholder appointed by that meeting. The
final minutes are made available on the website of ING
Group (www.ing.com). By exception to the provisions
of the Corporate Governance Code, shareholders will
not have the opportunity to react to the minutes of a
General Meeting if a notarial report of the meeting is
made, as this would be in conflict with laws applicable
to such notarial report.

Executive Board
Appointment, suspension and dismissal

Members of the Executive Board are appointed,
suspended and dismissed by the General Meeting. For
the appointment of Executive Board members, the
Supervisory Board may draw up a binding list, which
may be rendered non-binding by the General Meeting.
A resolution of the General Meeting to render this
list non-binding, or to suspend or dismiss Executive
Board members without this being proposed by the
Supervisory Board, requires an absolute majority of the
votes cast. Additionally, this majority must represent
more than half of the issued share capital. The Articles of
Association exclude the waiver of the latter requirement
in a second General Meeting. Thus it is ensured that
significant proposals of shareholders cannot be adopted
in a General Meeting with a low attendance rate and can
only be adopted with substantial support of ING Group’s
shareholders.
Candidates for appointment to the Executive Board must
comply with the suitability and reliability requirements
as set out in the Dutch Financial Supervision Act and
must continue to meet these while in function.

Function of the Executive Board

The Executive Board is charged with the management
of ING Group. This includes responsibility for setting
and achieving ING Group’s strategy, objectives and
ING Group Annual Report 2017

75

policies, as well as the ensuing delivery of results. It also
includes the day-to-day management of ING Group. The
Executive Board is accountable for the performance of
these duties to the Supervisory Board and the General
Meeting. The responsibility for the management of
ING Group is vested in the Executive Board collectively.
The organisation, powers and modus operandi of the
Executive Board are detailed in the Executive Board
Charter as approved by the Supervisory Board.
The Executive Board Charter is available at
www.ing.com/17ar11.

According to the Banker’s Oath that is taken by the
members of the Executive Board, they must carefully
consider the interests of all stakeholders of ING. In that
consideration they must put the customer’s interests at
the centre of all their activities.
ING Group indemnifies the members of the Executive
Board against direct financial losses in connection with
claims from third parties, as far as permitted by law, on
the conditions laid down in the Articles of Association
and their commission contract. ING Group has taken
out liability insurance for the members of the Executive
Board.

Profile of members of the Executive Board

The Supervisory Board has drawn up a profile to be used
as a basis for selecting members of the Executive Board.
It is available on the website of ING Group (www.ing.
com).
ING Group aims to have an adequate and balanced
composition of its Executive Board. The Supervisory
Board annually assesses the composition of the
Executive Board.
ING aims for the Executive Board of ING to consist of a
diverse selection of persons with executive experience,
preferably gained in the banking sector, experience in
corporate governance of large stock-listed companies
and experience in the political and social environment in
which such companies operate. In addition, there should
be a good balance in the experience and affinity with the
desired nature and culture of the business of ING. ING
strives to have at least 30% of the seats held by women,
and at least 30% of the seats by men.
These guidelines, that relate to the composition of the
Executive Board, are laid down in the Executive Board
Profile. Based on this profile, the Supervisory Board is
responsible for selecting and nominating candidates for
appointment or reappointment to the Executive Board.
During 2017, two new members were appointed to
the Executive Board. The current members have been
with ING in several positions and therefore jointly
possess the right experiences and affinity with ING’s
activities, culture and market environment. In the wider
Management Board Banking a female board member
was appointed in 2016. Currently, there are no female
members in the Executive Board, although that ambition
of gender diversity remains unchanged. This remains
a key topic for the Supervisory Board with respect to

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Corporate governance – continued

succession planning and future appointments to the
Executive Board.

Remuneration and share ownership

Members of the Executive Board are permitted to hold
shares in the share capital of ING Group for long-term
investment purposes. Transactions by members of the
Executive Board in these shares are subject to the ING
regulations for insiders. These regulations are available
on the website of ING Group (www.ing.com).
Details of the remuneration of members of the
Executive Board, including shares granted to them,
together with additional information, are provided in
the ‘Remuneration report’.

Ancillary positions/conflicting interests
No member of the Executive Board has corporate
directorships at listed companies outside ING.

Transactions involving actual or potential
conflicts of interest
In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code,
transactions with members of the Executive Board in
which there are significant conflicts of interest will be
disclosed in the Annual Report.

Significant conflicting interests are considered to
be absent and are not reported if a member of the
Executive Board obtains financial products and services,
other than loans, which are provided by ING Group
subsidiaries in the ordinary course of their business on
terms that apply to all employees. In connection with
the aforementioned, the term loans does not include
financial products in which the granting of credit is of a
subordinated nature, e.g. credit cards and overdrafts in
current account, because of a lack of materiality.
For an overview of loans granted to members of the
Executive Board, see page 95 of the ‘Remuneration
report’.

Information on members of
the Executive Board
R.A.J.G. (Ralph) Hamers,
Chief Executive Officer (‘CEO’)

Relevant positions pursuant to CRD IV1:

Chairman and CEO of the Executive Board of ING Groep
N.V. and of the Management Board of ING Bank N.V.

Other relevant ancillary positions:

Member of the Management Board of the Nederlandse
Vereniging van Banken (NVB), member of the Board of
Directors of the Institute of International Finance, Inc.
and non-executive member of the board of Foundation
Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra Amsterdam.

J.V. (Koos) Timmermans),
Chief Financial Officer (‘CFO’)

(Born 1960, Dutch nationality, male; appointed in 2017,
term expires in 2021)
Koos Timmermans has been a member of the Executive
Board and CFO of ING Group since 8 May 2017. He also
serves as a member and CFO on the Management Board
Banking. He is responsible for ING’s financial strategy,
including internal and external reporting, budgeting,
procurement, forecasting, capital management,
tax management, investor relations and business
performance reporting and analysis, among which
measuring adherence to financial targets. Furthermore
he is responsible for Bank Treasury, Sustainability, and
Regulatory & International Affairs. Before becoming
CFO, he was head of Market Leaders, responsbile for
ING’s operations in the Benelux, and between 2007 and
2011 he was CRO of ING Group. Before joining ING in
1996 he worked for IBM’s European treasury in Ireland
and ABN AMRO Bank in the area of financial markets.
Koos Timmermans graduated from Erasmus University
Rotterdam (the Netherlands) in 1986 with a master’s
degree in economics.

Relevant positions pursuant to CRD IV:

(Born 1966, Dutch nationality, male; appointed in 2013,
current term expires in 2021)
Ralph Hamers has been a member of the Executive
Board of ING Group since 13 May 2013 and was
appointed CEO and chairman of the Executive Board
and the Managing Board Banking on 1 October 2013.
He is responsible for the proper functioning of the
Exective Board and the Management Board Banking
and its committees, formulating and implementing
ING’s strategy, acting as main contact for the
Supervisory Board. He is also responsible for the
following departments: Innovation, Legal, Corporate
Strategy, Corporate HR, Corporate Communications
and Corporate Audit Services. He joined ING in 1991

1 The fourth EU Capital Requirements Directive 2013/36/EU

ING Group Annual Report 2017

and has held various positions including global head
Wholesale Banking Network from 2007 to 2010, head
of Network Management for Retail Banking Direct &
International from 2010 to 2011, and CEO of ING Belgium
and Luxembourg from 2011 to 2013. He holds a Master
of Science degree in Business Econometrics/Operations
Research from Tilburg University, the Netherlands.

76

Member and CFO of the Executive Board of ING
Groep N.V., member, CFO and vice-chairman of the
Management Board of ING Bank N.V., member of the
Management Board of ING Support Holding B.V. and
member of the Supervisory Board of Nederlandse
Financierings-Maatschappij voor Ontwikkelingslanden
N.V. (‘FMO’, Entrepreneurial Development Bank).

Other relevant ancillary positions:

Vice-chairman of the Management Board of the
Nederlandse Vereniging van Banken (NVB), member
of the Supervisory Board Stadsherstel Amsterdam N.V.
and member of the Supervisory Board of Amsterdam
Institute of Finance.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Corporate governance – continued

S.J.A. (Steven) van Rijswijk,
Chief Risk Officer (‘CRO’)

In line with Dutch company law, the Articles of
Association, the Corporate Governance Code as well
as the Supervisory Board Charter, all members of the
Supervisory Board are required to:

Steven van Rijswijk has been a member of the Executive
Board since 8 May 2017. He was appointed CRO on
1 August 2017. He is also a member and CRO of the
Management Board Banking. Before becoming a
member of the Executive Board, Steven van Rijswijk was
global head of Client Coverage within ING Wholesale
Banking. Steven van Rijswijk joined ING in 1995 in the
Corporate Finance team holding various positions in
the areas of Mergers & Acquisitions and Equity Markets.
Steven van Rijswijk holds a master’s degree in business
economics from Erasmus University Rotterdam (the
Netherlands).

• Act in accordance with the interests of ING Group and
the business connected with it, taking into account the
relevant interests of all stakeholders of ING Group;
• Perform their duties without mandate and
independent of any interest in the business of ING
Group; and
• Refrain from supporting one interest without regard to
the other interests involved.

(Born 1970, Dutch nationality, male; appointed in 2017,
term expires in 2021)

Relevant positions pursuant to CRD IV:

Member and CRO of the Executive Board of ING Groep
N.V. and member and CRO of the Management Board of
ING Bank N.V.

Changes in the composition

On 8 May 2017, the General Meeting appointed Koos
Timmermans and Steven van Rijswijk as members of the
Executive Board of ING Group, succeeding Patrick Flynn
and Wilfred Nagel respectively.

Supervisory Board
Appointment, suspension and dismissal

Members of the Supervisory Board are appointed,
suspended and dismissed by the General Meeting. For
the appointment of Supervisory Board members, the
Supervisory Board may draw up a binding list, which
may be rendered non-binding by the General Meeting.
A resolution of the General Meeting to render this list
non-binding, or to suspend or dismiss Supervisory
Board members without this being proposed by the
Supervisory Board, requires an absolute majority of the
votes cast. Additionally, this majority must represent
more than half of the issued share capital. The Articles of
Association exclude the waiver of the latter requirement
in a second General Meeting. Thus it is ensured that
significant proposals of shareholders cannot be adopted
in a General Meeting with a low attendance rate and can
only be adopted with substantial support of ING Group’s
shareholders.
Candidates for appointment to the Supervisory
Board must comply with the suitability and reliability
requirements as set out in the Dutch Financial
Supervision Act and must continue to meet these while
in function.

Function of the Supervisory Board

The function of the Supervisory Board is to supervise the
policy of the Executive Board and the general course of
affairs of ING Group and its business, as well as to provide
advice to the Executive Board.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

77

According to the Banker’s Oath that was taken by the
members of the Supervisory Board, they must carefully
consider the interests of all stakeholders of ING. In that
consideration they must put the customer’s interests at
the centre of all their activities. Certain resolutions of the
Executive Board, specified in the Articles of Association,
in the Executive Board Charter and in the Supervisory
Board Charter, are subject to approval of the Supervisory
Board.
ING Group indemnifies the members of the Supervisory
Board against direct financial losses in connection with
claims from third parties as far as permitted by law on
the conditions laid down in the Articles of Association
and an indemnity statement. ING Group has taken
out liability insurance for the members of the
Supervisory Board.

Profile of members of the
Supervisory Board

The Supervisory Board has drawn up a profile to be
used as a basis for its composition. It is available on the
website of ING Group (www.ing.com).
In view of their experience and the valuable contribution
that former members of the Executive Board can make
to the Supervisory Board, it has been decided, taking
into account the size of the Supervisory Board and
ING’s wide range of activities that such individuals may
become members of the Supervisory Board of ING Group.
Former Executive Board members must wait at least one
year before becoming eligible for appointment to the
Supervisory Board.
Former members of the Executive Board are not eligible
for appointment to the position of chairman or vicechairman of the Supervisory Board.
After a former member of the Executive Board has been
appointed to the Supervisory Board, this member may
also be appointed to one of the Supervisory Board’s
committees. However, appointment to the Audit
Committee is only possible if the individual in question
resigned from the Executive Board at least three years
prior to such appointment.
The Supervisory Board of ING shall consist of a mix of
persons with executive experience, preferably gained in
the banking sector, experience in corporate governance
of large stock-listed companies and experience in

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Corporate governance – continued

the political and social environment in which such
companies operate. In the selection of Supervisory Board
members, ING is striving for a balance in nationality,
gender, age, and educational and work background. In
addition, there should be a balance in the experience
and affinity with the nature and culture of the business
of ING and its subsidiaries. More specifically ING strives
to have at least 30% of the seats held by women, and
at least 30% of the seats by men. These guidelines,
that relate to the composition of the Supervisory Board,
are laid down in the Supervisory Board Profile. Based
on this profile, the Supervisory Board is responsible for
selecting and nominating candidates for appointment or
reappointment to the Supervisory Board.
With respect to gender diversity, in the course of 2017
two female board members (Isabel Martín Castellá
and Ann Sherry) stepped down from the Supervisory
Board and one female member (Margarete Haase) was
appointed. From January up to May the percentage of
females exceeded 30% of the total composition, with an
annual average of 28%. Considering the appointment of
Margarete Haase and further measures to be taken, the
preferred composition in terms of gender will be adhered
to as soon as reasonably possible.
We believe that the Supervisory Board, diversity wise,
is well-balanced. in terms of other relevant diversity
aspects. Overall, the preferred emphasis on members
with a financial or banking background has been
maintained, although for 2017 it was decided to
attract two new members (Hans Wijers and Jan Peter
Balkenende) with a broader, more generic background,
having experience in the political and social environment
as well. In terms of nationality, the ratio between
Dutch and non-Dutch nationals in 2017 was on average
50%-50%.
Other diversity related aspects are also taken into
consideration in light of the overall SB composition (see
‘Report of the Supervisory Board’ chapter, page 69).

Term of appointment of members
of the Supervisory Board

As a general rule, Supervisory Board members step down
from the Supervisory Board in the fourth, eight, 10th
and 12th year after their initial appointment. They are
eligible for re-appointment in the fourth year after their
initial appointment and, with explanation, also in the
eight and 10th year.
Under special circumstances the Supervisory Board
may, with explanation, deviate from this general rule,
for instance to maintain a balanced composition of the
Supervisory Board and/or to preserve valuable expertise
and experience. The schedule for resignation by rotation
is available on the website of ING Group (www.ing.com).

Ancillary positions/conflicting interests

Members of the Supervisory Board may hold other
positions, including directorships, either paid or unpaid.
CRD IV restricts the total number of supervisory
board positions or non-executive directorships with

ING Group Annual Report 2017

78

commercial organisations that may be held by a
Supervisory Board member to four, or to two, if the
Supervisory Board member also has an executive board
position. The European Central Bank may, under special
circumstances, permit a Supervisory Board member
to fulfil an additional supervisory board position or
non-executive directorship. Positions with, inter alia,
subsidiaries or qualified holdings are not taken into
account in the application of these restrictions. Such
positions may not conflict with the interests of ING
Group. It is the responsibility of the individual member
of the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board
to ensure that the directorship duties are performed
properly and are not affected by any other positions that
the individual may hold outside ING Group.
Members of the Supervisory Board are to disclose
material conflicts of interest (including potential conflicts
of interest) and to provide all relevant information
relating to them. The Supervisory Board – without the
member concerned taking part – then decides whether a
conflict of interest exists.
In case of a conflict of interest, the relevant member
of the Supervisory Board abstains from discussions
and decision-making on the topic or the transaction in
relation to which he or she has a conflict of interest with
ING Group.

Transactions involving actual or
potential conflicts of interest

In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code,
transactions involving members of the Supervisory Board
in which there are material conflicting interests are
disclosed in the Annual Report.
Any relation that a member of the Supervisory Board
may have with ING Group subsidiaries as an ordinary,
private individual, is not considered a significant conflict
of interest. Such relationships are not reported, with the
exception of any loans that may have been granted.
For an overview of loans granted to members of the
Supervisory Board, see the ‘Remuneration report’
chapter (page 98).

Independence

The members of the Supervisory Board are requested to
assess annually whether the criteria of dependence set
out in the Corporate Governance Code do not apply to
them and to confirm this in writing. On the basis of these
criteria, all members of the Supervisory Board, with the
exception of Eric Boyer de la Giroday, are to be regarded
as independent on 31 December 2017. Eric Boyer de la
Giroday is not considered independent because of his
former position as Chairman of the Board of Directors
of ING Belgium S.A./N.V. and his former positions as
member of the Executive Board of ING Group and vicechairman of the Management Board Banking of ING
Bank N.V. On the basis of the NYSE listing standards, all
members of the Supervisory Board are independent.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Corporate governance – continued

Supervisory Board

Risk
Committee

Audit
Committee

Committees of the Supervisory Board

On 31 December 2017, the Supervisory Board had
four committees: the the Risk Committee, the Audit
Committee, the Nomination and Corporate Governance
Committee and the Remuneration Committee. An
organisational chart of the four committees of the
Supervisory Board can be found above.
The organisation, powers and conduct of the Supervisory
Board are detailed in the Supervisory Board Charter that
can be found on www.ing.com/17ar12.
Separate charters have been drawn up for the Risk
Committee, the Audit Committee, the Nomination and
Corporate Governance Committee and the Remuneration
Committee. These charters are available on the website
of ING Group (www.ing.com). A short description of the
duties for the four Committees follows below.
The Risk Committee assists and advises the Supervisory
Board in monitoring the risk profile of ING as a whole as
well as the structure and operation of the internal risk
management and control systems. On 31 December
2017, the members of the Risk Committee were:
Robert Reibestein (chairman), Jan Peter Balkenende, Eric
Boyer de la Giroday, Mariana Gheorghe, Hermann-Josef
Lamberti and Jeroen van der Veer.
The Audit Committee assists and advises the
Supervisory Board in monitoring the integrity of the
financial statements of ING Group, and ING Bank N.V., in
monitoring the compliance with legal and regulatory
requirements and in monitoring the independence
and performance of ING Group’s internal and external
auditors. On 31 December 2017, the members of
the Audit Committee were: Hermann-Josef Lamberti
(chairman), Eric Boyer de la Giroday, Robert Reibestein
and Hans Wijers. Following the unforeseen departure in
September 2015 of Carin Gorter, the Supervisory Board
has determined that no member of the Audit Committee
is an “audit committee financial expert” as defined by
the SEC. The Supervisory Board subsequently sought
to identify further members of the Audit Committee
who would also qualify as an “audit committee
financial expert” as defined by the SEC. This resulted
in the proposed appointment of Margarete Haase; the
Supervisory Board has determined that she is an “audit
committee financial expert” as defined by the SEC.
Margarete Haase was appointed as a member of the
Supervisory Board at the General Meeting in May 2017.
ING Group Annual Report 2017

79

Nomination and
Corporate Governance
Committee

Remuneration
Committee

In light of the planned reduction of the number of her
directorships at other companies, the appointment of
Margarete Haase will become effective as per 1 May
2018 (as decided by the Supervisory Board in January
2018). Following the effectiveness of her appointment,
Margarete Haase will also be a member of the Audit
Committee. As per 1 October 2017 she already has been
present as an observer at the meetings of the Audit
Committee and the Supervisory Board. Eric Boyer de
la Giroday is a financial expert as defined in the Dutch
Corporate Governance Code considering his academic
background as well as his knowledge and experience in
his previous role as board member and vice-chairman of
ING Groep N.V. and ING Bank N.V.
The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee’s
tasks include advising the Supervisory Board on the
composition of the Executive Board and Supervisory
Board and assisting the Supervisory Board in monitoring
and evaluating the corporate governance of ING as a
whole and the reporting thereon in the Annual Report
and to the General Meeting, and advises the Supervisory
Board on improvements. On 31 December 2017, the
members of the Nomination and Corporate Governance
Committee were: Jeroen van der Veer (chairman), Henk
Breukink and Hans Wijers.
The Remuneration Committee’s tasks include advising
the Supervisory Board on the terms and conditions of
employment (including remuneration) of the members
of the Executive Board and on the policies and general
principles on which the terms and conditions of
employment of the members of the Executive Board
and of senior managers of ING Group and its subsidiaries
are based. On 31 December 2017, the members of
the Remuneration Committee were: Henk Breukink
(chairman), Robert Reibestein, Jeroen van der Veer and
Hans Wijers.
The composition of the Supervisory Board
Committees can be found on ING Group’s website
www.ing.com/17ar13.

Company secretary

The Supervisory Board is assisted by the company
secretary Cindy van Eldert-Klep.

Remuneration and share ownership

Remuneration of the members of the Supervisory
Board is determined by the General Meeting and is

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Corporate governance – continued

not dependent on the results of ING Group. Details of
the remuneration are provided in the Remuneration
report on page 98. Members of the Supervisory Board
are permitted to hold shares in the share capital of
ING Group for long-term investment purposes. Details
are given on page 98. Transactions by members of the
Supervisory Board in these shares are subject to the ING
regulations regarding insiders.
ING regulations regarding insiders are available on the
website of ING Group www.ing.com/17ar14.

Information on members of the
Supervisory Board
J. (Jeroen) Van der Veer (Chairman)

(Born 1956, Dutch nationality, male; appointed in 2017,
term expires in 2021)
Former position: partner EY (on corporate responsibility).
Balkenende started as an observer for the Supervisory
Board until 1 September 2017.

Relevant positions pursuant to CRD IV:

Member of the Supervisory Board of ING Groep N.V./ING
Bank N.V. per 1 September 2017.

Other relevant ancillary positions:

(Born 1947, Dutch nationality, male; appointed in 2009,
term expires in 2018)
Former position: Chief Executive Officer of Royal Dutch
Shell plc.

Relevant positions pursuant to CRD IV:

Chairman of the Supervisory Board of ING Groep N.V./
ING Bank N.V., chairman of the Supervisory Board of
Koninklijke Philips N.V., Member of the Supervisory Board
of Koninklijke Boskalis Westminster N.V. and member of
the Supervisory Board of Statoil ASA.

Other relevant ancillary positions:

Chairman of Stichting Het Concertgebouw Fonds
(foundation) and chairman of the Supervisory Council of
the Delft University of Technology, and senior advisor at
Mazarine Energy B.V.

H.J.M. (Hermann-Josef) Lamberti
(Vice-Chairman)

(Born 1956, German nationality, male; appointed in 2013,
term expires in 2021)
Former position: Chief Operating Officer of Deutsche
Bank AG.

Relevant positions pursuant to CRD IV:

Vice-chairman of the Supervisory Board of ING Groep
N.V./ING Bank N.V., non-executive member of the
Board of Directors of Airbus Group N.V., chairman of
the Supervisory Board of Addiko Bank and director of
Frankfurt Technology Management GmbH.
As at 31 December 2017 Hermann-Josef Lamberti holds
one executive and three non-executive positions. As
per section 91 of CRD IV, this exceeds the maximum of
(non-)executive positions allowed for (under section
3:8 of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act), i.e. one
non-executive position too many. In consultation with
the European Central Bank (‘ECB’) and based on the
aforementioned article a request has been submitted to
the ECB to authorise Hermann-Josef Lamberti to hold
one additional non-executive position in order to comply
with the board limitation rules.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

J.P. (Jan Peter) Balkenende

80

Professor of governance, institutions and
internationalisation of Erasmus University Rotterdam
(the Netherlands), external senior adviser to EY,
Chairman of the Advisory Board of the International
Advisory Board (IAB) Rotterdam, member of the
Supervisory Board of Goldschmeding Foundation,
chairman of the Board of Maatschappelijke Alliantie (the
Netherlands) and chairman of the Advisory Board of
Noaber Foundation.

E.F.C.B. (Eric) Boyer de la Giroday

(Born 1952, Belgian nationality, male: appointed in 2014,
term expires in 2018)
Former position: member of the Executive Board of ING
Groep N.V. and ING Bank N.V.

Relevant positions pursuant to CRD IV:

Member of the Supervisory Board of ING Groep N.V./ING
Bank N.V. and non-executive chairman of the Board of
Directors of ING Belgium S.A./N.V.

Other relevant ancillary position:

Non-executive director of the board of directors of the
Instituts Internationaux de Physique et de Chimie fondés
par Ernest Solvay, asbl.

H.W. (Henk) Breukink

(Born 1950, Dutch nationality, male; appointed in 2007,
term expires in 2019)
Former position: Managing Director of F&C and country
head for F&C Netherlands (asset management firm).

Relevant positions pursuant to CRD IV:

Member of the Supervisory Board of ING Groep N.V./ING
Bank N.V., non-executive director of Brink Groep B.V. and
executive director of Executive Development Dialogue
B.V.

M. (Mariana) Gheorghe

(Born 1956, Romanian nationality, female, appointed in
2015, term expires in 2019)
Former position: international banker with the European
Bank for Reconstruction.

Relevant positions pursuant to CRD IV:

Member of the Supervisory Board of ING Groep N.V./ING
Bank N.V., chief executive officer of OMV Petrom S.A.,
chairwoman of the Supervisory Board of OMV Petrom
Marketing, chairwoman of the Supervisory Board of OMV
Petrom Gas and member of the Supervisory Board of
OMV Petrom Global Solutions.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Corporate governance – continued

M. (Margarete) Haase

(Born 1953, Austrian nationality, female; appointed in
2017, term expires in 2021)
Former position: member of the Executive Board of
Daimler financial services.
Margarete Haase started as an observer for the Audit
Committee and the Supervisory Board on 1 October
2017, until her outside positions would meet the CRD
IV requirements; her membership will become effective
as per 1 May 2018. As observer she is present at the
Supervisory Board and Audit Committee meetings,
however, as an observer she does not participate in the
decision-making.

Relevant positions pursuant to CRD IV:

Member of the Supervisory Board of ING Groep N.V./
ING Bank N.V. (effective per 1 May 2018), chief financial
officer and member of the Executive Board of Deutz
AG, member of the Supervisory Board and chairwoman
of the Audit Committee of Fraport AG, Member of
the Supervisory Board and chairwoman of the Audit
Committee of ZF Friedrichshafen AG.

Other relevant ancillary positions:

Chairwoman of the Employers Association of Kölnmetall
and member of the German Corporate Governance
Commission.

R.W.P. (Robert) Reibestein

(Born 1956, Dutch nationality, male; appointed in 2012 as
an observer, full member as of 2013, term expires in 2021)
Former position: senior partner of McKinsey & Company.

Relevant positions pursuant to CRD IV:

Member of the Supervisory Board of ING Groep N.V./ING
Bank N.V. and member of the Supervisory Board of
IMC B.V.

Other relevant ancillary position:

Member of the Supervisory Board of Stichting World
Wildlife Fund (the Netherlands).

G.J. (Hans) Wijers

(Born 1951, Dutch nationality, male, appointed in 2017,
term expires in 2021)
Former position: Chief Excecutive Officer and Member of
the Executive Board of AkzoNobel N.V.

Relevant positions pursuant to CRD IV:

Member of the Supervisory Board of ING Groep N.V./
ING Bank N.V. per 1 September 2017, chairman of the
Supervisory Board and chairman of the preparatory
committee and selection & appointment committee
of Heineken N.V., non-executive director and deputy
chairman of the Board of Directors and chairman of the
corporate and social responsibility committee of Royal
Dutch Shell Plc, and member of the Supervisory Board of
Hal Investments Plc.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

81

Other relevant ancillary positions:

Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Het
Concertgebouw N.V. and chairman of the board of
Vereniging Natuurmonumenten (the Netherlands)

Changes in the composition

In May 2017, the General Meeting appointed Jan
Peter Balkenende, Margarete Haase and Hans Wijers
to the Supervisory Board. During 2017, Isabel Martin
Castellá retired and Ann Sherry stepped down from the
Supervisory Board.

Financial reporting

A description of the main features of ING Group’s internal
control and risk management systems in relation to the
financial reporting process is included in the statement
with respect to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
on page 86 which is deemed to be incorporated by
reference herein.

Change of control provisions
Legal provisions

Pursuant to the terms of the Dutch Financial Supervision
Act, a declaration of no objection from the ECB must
be obtained by anyone wishing to acquire or hold a
participating interest of at least 10 percent in ING Group
and to exercise control attached to such a participating
interest. Similarly, on the basis of indirect change
of control statutes in the various jurisdictions where
subsidiaries of ING Group are operating, permission from,
or notification to, local regulatory authorities may be
required for the acquisition of a substantial interest in
ING Group.

Change of control clauses in
material agreements

ING Group is not a party to any material agreement
that becomes effective or is required to be amended or
terminated, in case of a change of control of ING Group
following a public bid as defined in section 5:70 of the
Dutch Financial Supervision Act. ING Group subsidiaries
may have customary change of control arrangements
included in agreements related to various business
activities, such as joint-venture agreements, letters of
credit and other credit facilities, ISDA-agreements, hybrid
capital and debt instruments, insurance and reinsurance
agreements and futures and option trading agreements.
Following a change of control of ING Group (as a result
of a public bid or otherwise) such agreements may be
amended or terminated, leading, for example, to an
obligatory transfer of the interest in the joint venture,
early repayment of amounts due, loss of credit facilities
or reinsurance cover, and liquidation of outstanding
futures and option trading positions.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Corporate governance – continued

Severance payments to members
of the Executive Board

The contracts entered into with the members of the
Executive Board provide for severance payments,
that become due upon termination of the applicable
Executive Board member’s contract, including if
termination occurs in connection with a public bid as
defined in section 5:70 of the Dutch Financial Supervision
Act. For purposes of calculating the amounts due,
it is not relevant whether or not termination of the
employment or commission contract is related to a
public bid. Severance payments to the members of the
Executive Board are limited to a maximum of one year’s
fixed salary, in line with the Dutch Financial Supervision
Act and the Corporate Governance Code.

Amendment of the Articles of Association

The General Meeting may resolve to amend the Articles
of Association of ING Group, provided that the resolution
is adopted based on a proposal of the Executive Board,
which has been approved by the Supervisory Board. An
amendment of the Articles of Association is required to
be passed by notarial deed.

External auditor

At the Annual General Meeting held on 11 May 2015,
KPMG was appointed as the external audit firm for ING
Group for the financial years 2016 through 2019. This
appointment includes the responsibility to audit the
financial statements of ING Group for the financial year
2017, to audit the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting on 31 December 2017, to report on
the outcome of these audits to the Executive Board and
the Supervisory Board and to provide an audit opinion
on the financial statements of ING Group. Additionally
KPMG performs a review of the sustainability information
in the annual report to obtain limited assurance and for
a number of non-financial KPI’s reasonable assurance,
about whether this information is free from material
misstatement. The sustainablility information is of
strategic importance to ING.
The external auditor may be questioned at the Annual
General Meeting in relation to its audit opinion on the
financial statements. The external auditor will therefore
attend and be entitled to address this meeting. The
external auditor attended the meetings of the Risk
Committee and of the Audit Committee and attended
and addressed the 2017 Annual General Meeting, at
which the external auditor was questioned on the audit
opinion.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

82

The external auditor may only provide services to ING
Group and its subsidiaries with the permission of the
Audit Committee.
ING Group provides the Audit Committee with a full
overview of all services provided by the external
auditor, including related fees, supported by detailed
information. This overview is periodically evaluated by
the Audit Committee throughout the year.
More information on ING Group’s policy on external
auditor independence is available on the website of
ING Group www.ing.com/17ar15.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Dutch Corporate Governance Code
Statement by the Executive Board
In accordance with best practice provision
1.4.3 of the 2016 Dutch Corporate Governance
Code, the Executive Board of ING Groep N.V.
states that it is responsible for the design,
implementation and functioning of ING’s
internal risk management and control systems.

ING’s internal risk management and control is a process,
effectuated by the Executive Board, senior management,
and other personnel. It is designed to mitigate risks and
provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement
of objectives in the following categories:
• Effectiveness and efficiency of operations;
• Reliability of financial and non-financial information;
• Compliance with laws, regulations and internal policies,
and the ING Values as part of the Orange Code;
• Safeguarding of assets, identification and
management of liabilities; and
• Strategic goals of ING Groep N.V.
The Risk and Capital Management section as part of the
Report of the Executive Board and the Risk Management
paragraph as part of the consolidated annual accounts
elaborate on ING’s identified financial and non-financial
risks (such as credit risk, market risk, operational risk,
compliance risk, funding & liquidity risk and business risk)
and how these risks are managed. These sections
provide insight into the potential impact on the results of
ING Groep N.V. that come forth from these identified
risks. The design and functioning of the internal risk
management and control systems is based on the Risk
Appetite Framework and the Non-Financial Risk
Framework. Both frameworks, explained in details in the
Risk Management paragraph as part of the consolidated
Annual Accounts, combine various financial and
non-financial risk disciplines into a single converged
approach and provide the businesses with a clear and
fair view on their risks and the way these are managed.
This view allows the Executive Board and senior
management to form an opinion on the adequacy of
internal risk management and control systems regarding
the risks they face while pursuing the Executive Board’s
strategy. In addition, ING has a process in place
regarding internal control over financial reporting for
which the CEO and CFO of ING Groep N.V. issue a
statement regarding ING’s financial reporting risks, i.e.
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in this Annual
report.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

83

The design and the operation of the internal risk
management and control systems are discussed
annually with the Risk Committee and the full
Supervisory Board, whereas the design and the operation
of internal control over financial reporting are discussed
annually with the Audit Committee and the Supervisory
Board. As part of this process, shortcomings in Know Your
Customer processes were identified and discussed with
the Risk committee of the Supervisory Board.
In discharging the responsibility, the Executive Board has
made an assessment of the effectiveness of the ING
Groep N.V.’s internal control and risk management
systems. Based on this assessment, the Executive Board
states that during the year under review:
• the report of the Executive Board in the ING Group
Annual report 2017 provides sufficient insights into
shortcomings in the effectiveness of the internal risk
management and control systems;
• those systems provide reasonable assurance that
the ING Group Annual report 2017 does not contain
material inaccuracies;
• based on the current state of affairs, it is justified that
the ING Group Annual report 2017 is prepared on a
going concern basis; and
• the report of the Executive Board in the ING Group
Annual Report 2017 states those material risks and
uncertainties that are relevant to the expectation of
ING Groep N.V.’s continuity for the period of twelve
months after the preparation of this report.
It should be noted that the above does not imply that
these systems and procedures provide absolute
assurance to ING as to the realisation of financial and
strategic business objectives, or that internal risk
management and control systems can prevent or detect
all misstatements, inaccuracies, errors, fraud and
non-compliances with legislation, rules and regulations.

Amsterdam, 5 March 2018
R.A.J.G. (Ralph) Hamers
CEO, chairman of the Executive Board
J.V. (Koos) Timmermans
CFO, member of the Executive Board
S.J.A. (Steven) van Rijswijk
CRO, member of the Executive Board

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Report of ING Continuity Foundation
Stichting Continuïteit ING (‘ING Continuity
Foundation’), a foundation organised under
the laws of the Netherlands, established in
Amsterdam, was founded on 22 January 1991.

ING Continuity Foundation is entitled to acquire
cumulative preference shares to be newly issued, on the
understanding that, following the issue, the number of
cumulative preference shares issued may be no more
than one third of the total number of shares issued. This
entitlement is vested in the Articles of Association of ING
Groep N.V.
If new shares other than cumulative preference shares
are subsequently issued, ING Continuity Foundation
may again exercise its right, subject to the provisions of
the preceding sentence. On acquisition of cumulative
preference shares, at least 25 percent of the nominal
value must be paid on said shares.
In 2017 the board of ING Continuity Foundation (the
‘Board’) held two meetings, on 25 April and 29 November.
The composition of the Board is currently as follows:
Sebastian Kortmann, chairman of the Board,
Rob van den Bergh, reappointed as of 2 February 2017,
Allard Metzelaar, reappointed as of 10 May 2017 and
Wim van Vonno.
All members of the Board stated that they meet the
conditions regarding independence as referred to in the
Articles of Association of ING Continuity Foundation.

Amsterdam, 5 March 2018
Board of Stichting Continuïteit ING

ING Group Annual Report 2017

84

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Conformity statement
The Executive Board is required to prepare
the Annual Accounts and the Annual Report
of ING Groep N.V. for each financial year in
accordance with applicable Dutch law and
those International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) that were endorsed by the
European Union.

Conformity statement pursuant to section 5:25c
paragraph 2(c) of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act
(Wet op het financieel toezicht).
The Executive Board is responsible for maintaining
proper accounting records, for safeguarding assets and
for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud
and other irregularities. It is responsible for selecting
suitable accounting policies and applying them on a
consistent basis, making judgements and estimates
that are prudent and reasonable. It is also responsible
for establishing and maintaining internal procedures
that ensure that all major financial information is
known to the Executive Board, so that the timeliness,
completeness and correctness of the external financial
reporting are assured.
As required by section 5:25c paragraph 2(c) of the Dutch
Financial Supervision Act, each of the signatories hereby
confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge:
• the ING Groep N.V. 2017 Annual Accounts give a true
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position
and profit or loss of ING Groep N.V. and the enterprises
included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
• the ING Groep N.V. 2017 Annual Report gives a true and
fair view of the position at the balance sheet date, the
development and performance of the business during
the financial year 2017 of ING Groep N.V. and the
enterprises included in the consolidation taken as a
whole, together with a description of the principal risks
ING Groep N.V. is being confronted with.

Amsterdam, 5 March 2018
R.A.J.G. (Ralph) Hamers
CEO, chairman of the Executive Board
J.V. (Koos) Timmermans
CFO, member of the Executive Board
S.J.A. (Steven) van Rijswijk
CRO, member of the Executive Board

ING Group Annual Report 2017

85

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Section 404 Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Due to the listing of ING shares on the New
York Stock Exchange, ING Group is required
to comply with the SEC regulations adopted
pursuant to Section 404 of the SarbanesOxley Act (SOX 404).

These regulations require that the Chief Executive Officer
(“CEO”) and the Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) of ING
Group report and certify on an annual basis on the
effectiveness of ING Group’s internal controls over
financial reporting. Furthermore, the external auditors
are required to provide an opinion on the effectiveness of
ING Group’s internal controls over financial reporting.
SOX 404 activities are organised along the lines of the
governance structure, and involve the participation of
senior management across ING. Following the SOX 404
process, ING is in the position to publish an unqualified
statement that the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of 31 December
2017. The SOX 404 statement by the Executive Board is
included on this page, followed by the report of the
external auditor as issued on Form 20-F.

Report of the Executive Board on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting

The Executive Board is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting. ING’s internal control over financial reporting is
a process designed under the supervision of our principal
executive and principal financial officers to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles.
Our internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that:
• Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of assets of ING;
• Provide reasonable assurance that transactions
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts
and expenditures are being made only in accordance
with authorisations of our management and directors;
and
• Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or
disposition of our assets that could have a material
effect on our financial statements.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

86

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the agree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
The Executive Board assessed the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting as of 31
December 2017. In making this assessment, the
Executive Board performed tests based on the criteria of
the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the
Treadway Commission (“COSO”) in Internal Reporting
– Integrated Framework (2013 Framework). Based on the
Executive Board’s assessment and those criteria, the
Executive Board concluded that the Company’s internal
control over disclosure and financial reporting was
effective as of 31 December 2017.

Attestation Report of the Registered
Public Accounting Firm

Our independent registered public accounting firm has
audited and issued their report on ING’s internal
control over financial reporting, which appears on the
following page.

Changes in Internal Controls over
Financial Reporting

There have been no changes in the Company’s internal
controls over financial reporting during the period
covered by this Annual Report that have materially
affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our
internal controls over financial reporting.

Amsterdam, 5 March 2018
R.A.J.G. (Ralph) Hamers
CEO, chairman of the Executive Board
J.V. Timmermans
CFO, member of the Executive Board

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Report of independent registered
public accounting firm

Report of independent registered public accounting firm
To: the shareholders and the Supervisory Board of ING Groep N.V.
Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

We have audited ING Groep N.V. and subsidiaries’ (the Company) internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. In our opinion, the Company
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017,
based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States) (“PCAOB”), the consolidated statements of financial position of the Company as of December
31, 2017 and 2016, the related consolidated statements of profit or loss, comprehensive income, changes in
equity, and cash flows for the years then ended, and the related notes (collectively, the consolidated financial
statements), and our report dated March 5, 2018 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated
financial statements.

Basis for Opinion

The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Report of the Executive Board on internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is
to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a
public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the
Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a
material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control
based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Amstelveen, March 5, 2018
KPMG Accountants N.V.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

87

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Remuneration report
ING’s remuneration policy is designed
to ensure that we offer well-balanced
remuneration so we can recruit, engage and
retain highly qualified staff and live up to our
responsibilities towards our stakeholders.
ING’s global remuneration policy complies
with all relevant international and local
legislation and regulations.

Remuneration policy ING

We have a global remuneration policy in place applicable
to all staff across our more than 40 countries.
In setting the level of remuneration we look at a number
of varying factors. These include:
• The complexity of work
• The scope of responsibilities
• The international character of the group
• Risk alignment
• The (inter)national laws and regulations
• Specifics of the particular labour market
• Other long-term objectives of ING and its stakeholders.
The remuneration principles below apply to all staff:
ING’s Remuneration Policy Principles

Business strategy and company goals

ING’s remuneration policy is aligned with business
strategy and company goals.

Long-term value creation

ING’s remuneration policy contributes to long-term
value creation of the company and supports a focus
on the long-term interests of its stakeholders,
including all staff, customers and shareholders.

Risk and controls

Risk management is an enabler of long-term value
creation. ING ensures the remuneration policy is
properly correlated with its risk profile and the
interest of its stakeholders.

Performance driven

ING operates a robust performance management
process linked to remuneration to steer and motivate
all staff to deliver on ING’s strategic goals and prevent
rewarding for failure.

Responsible and fair

ING acts responsibly and treats staff fairly across the
globe.

Sustainable

ING supports sustainable recruitment, engagement
and retention of all staff.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

88

Total direct compensation

Total direct compensation is the total of fixed and
variable remuneration, excluding benefits such as
pension and allowances.
ING aims to provide total direct compensation levels for
expected business and individual performance which, on
average, are at the median of the markets in which we
operate, benchmarked against relevant peer groups.

Variable remuneration

The awarding of variable remuneration, where
applicable, is primarily focused on long-term value
creation and based on individual, business line and
bank-wide performance criteria.
For Identified Staff (i.e. staff that is considered to have a
material impact on the risk profile of ING) a deferral
scheme applies to their variable remuneration and a
substantial part (50-100%) of their variable
remuneration is awarded in equity. A minimum of 40%
of variable remuneration is deferred over a period of
three to five years with a tiered vesting schedule.

Shareholders’ mandate

ING’s Remuneration Policy is compliant with
(inter)national laws and regulations. The Dutch law, Wet
Beloningsbeleid Financiële Ondernemingen (hereafter:
WBFO) sets various requirements, especially with respect
to variable remuneration. These include requirements for
mandatory holdback and claw back provisions, variable
remuneration caps, special conditions linked to retention,
sign on, severance payments and the requirement that
variable remuneration must be based for at least 50% on
non-financial performance. ING applies all these
requirements.
Under the WBFO, financial institutions are permitted to
set a variable remuneration cap higher than 100% of
fixed remuneration for employees outside of the
European Economic Area (EEA), provided that the higher
cap is approved by their shareholders and does not
conflict with the institution’s capital adequacy
requirements.
In 2017 approval was given at the Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders (AGM) to continue with an
increased maximum percentage of up to 200%, outside
the EEA, for a period of five performance years, from
2017 to 2021. ING uses this facility very rarely and for no
more than 1% of employees worldwide.

Risk mitigating measures

ING applies measures to mitigate risk relating to variable
remuneration. Our remuneration policy takes into
consideration risk, capital, liquidity and the likelihood and
timing of earnings. Measures include pre-award and
post-award risk assessments of variable remuneration.
The pre-award risk assessment process aims to consider
the full range of any current and potential future risks.
As part of this process, ING takes into account the
company performance at bank, business line and
individual levels, as well as a solvency test.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Remuneration report – continued

In addition, risk requirements apply to a small number of
staff members that are considered Risk Takers. These risk
requirements set the minimum standards to be met
during the performance year. Deviation from these
standards may lead to downward adjustment of variable
remuneration, a so called Risk Modifier.
The post-award risk assessment process analyses
whether the outcomes of the initial pre-award risk
assessment process were correct. This can, and in certain
situations must, result in a downward adjustment of
variable remuneration by applying a holdback (i.e.
forfeiture of up to 100% of the awarded and unvested
variable remuneration) and/or claw back (surrender of up
to 100% of the paid or vested variable remuneration).
To ensure the autonomy of staff in control functions
(positions within Legal, Risk, Finance, Compliance, Audit
and HR), the functional line is in the lead for the
performance assessment. Where financial performance
targets are included, they must be based on the financial
performance of the bank.
The total amount of variable remuneration awarded to
all employees over 2017 was EUR 403,1 million,
compared to total staff expenses of EUR 5,202 million.
Variable remuneration includes both individual and
collective variable remuneration such as profit sharing
arrangements agreed with relevant trade unions.
In 2017, there were 14 employees, working in the
Corporate Staff (COO, CRO, CFO), Wholesale Banking and
Retail Banking business lines, to whom total annual
remuneration (including employer pension contributions
and any severance payments made) of EUR 1 million or
more was awarded. Most of these employees work
outside of the Netherlands.

Performance Management

Our remuneration approach is strongly linked to
performance management.
We introduced the new performance management
standard ‘Step Up’ which aims to improve the
performance of the bank by moving us from a
retrospective review process to a real-time improvement
process. As of January 2018 this standard applies to all
staff 1.
The main elements of the Step Up performance
management framework are:
• Stretch Ambitions: positive ‘stretch’ of job expectations
and behaviours that are inspiring, stretch employees
further than their daily job and contribute to the
performance of ING.
• No single rating system: every single ING employee
and manager receives an evaluation (excellent, well
done, improvement required) on each of the three
performance dimensions: Job expectations, Orange
Code and Stretch Ambitions.

• Recognition management: an approach that
empowers managers to decide on a continuous basis
the right mix of recognition both financial and nonfinancial.
• Validation sessions: ensures alignment in target
setting, mid-year review and year-end evaluation.
• Continuous performance conversations: enables
performance improvement at individual and team level.
Performance is assessed against financial and nonfinancial indicators. Non-financial indicators aim to further
improve ING’s responsible and sustainable business
practices and include one or more of the following:
• Customer satisfaction
• Risk management
• Stakeholder engagement
• Orange Code behaviours
• Workforce diversity
• Environmental and social criteria
• Sustainable business practices.
Risk mitigation measures may lead to an adjustment of
the performance outcome and affect compensation.

Remuneration policy for the Executive Board
The Executive Board’s remuneration policy is compliant
with applicable laws and regulations and is in line with
the remuneration principles that apply to all staff.

The current remuneration policy for the Executive Board
was adopted at the AGM on 27 April 2010. Amendments
to this policy were adopted at subsequent AGMs:
• On 9 May 2011 in response to new regulatory
requirements
• On 12 May 2014 with respect to pensions for the
Executive Board
• On 11 May 2015 in order to lower the maximum
variable remuneration in line with legal requirements
and specify that variable remuneration for the
Executive Board be paid fully in shares
• On 8 May 2017 by extending the deferral period of the
variable remuneration from three to five years.

Total direct compensation

Total direct compensation is the total of fixed and
variable remuneration, excluding benefits such as
pension and allowances. It is determined and reviewed
periodically by the Supervisory Board taken into account
a number of varying factors in particular the
international market environment.
The Executive Board’s total direct compensation is
compared to Euro Stoxx 50 companies as the Euro Stoxx
50 benchmark includes similar organisations in terms of
size and international scope. The index comprises 50
companies, including ING, in a range of financial and
non-financial industries from 12 countries within the
Eurozone, mainly operating in an international context.
The Executive Board’s remuneration policy aims to award
total direct compensation slightly below the median of
the Euro Stoxx 50.

1 Except for non-Identified Staff in Germany because it is pending approval by the Works Council.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

89

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Remuneration report – continued

Variable remuneration

Compliant with legal requirements, variable
remuneration for the members of the Executive Board is
limited to a maximum of 20% of base salary at the time
of award. It is based for at least 50% on non-financial
performance and is fully paid out in shares.
The policy provides for an at-target variable
remuneration of 16% of base salary if performance
criteria are met. If performance criteria are exceeded,
the variable component can be increased by the
Supervisory Board from target to maximum, but may
not exceed 20% of base salary. If performance is below
target, the variable component will be decreased,
potentially to zero. The performance targets for the
Executive Board are annually pre-determined by the
Supervisory Board to ensure delivery of ING’s strategy.
The Executive Board remuneration policy aims to support
long-term value creation by means of deferral, retention,
holdback and claw back mechanisms.
40% of total variable remuneration is awarded upfront in
the year following the performance year. The remainder
(60%) is deferred. In accordance with guidelines issued
by the European Banking Authority (EBA) as per 2017,
the variable remuneration of the Executive Board
members is subject to tiered vesting over a period of five
years. In 2017, approval was given at the AGM to extend
the deferral period for the variable remuneration for
Executive Board members from three to five years, with
one fifth vesting each year. This will be applied for the
first time in 2018 with respect to variable remuneration
over performance year 2017.
Both the upfront and deferred part of variable
remuneration are fully awarded in shares. To all share
awards granted to Executive Board members in their
capacity as board member a minimum retention period
of five years from the date of conditional grant of the
shares and one year from the vesting date applies.
However, they are allowed to sell part of their shares on
the date of vesting to pay tax on the vested share award.
Fully awarding variable remuneration in shares, in
combination with an extensive deferral and retention
period, enables us to link remuneration with ING’s
long-term value creation.

Pension

As of 1 January 2015, all members of the Executive
Board participate in the Collective Defined Contribution
(CDC) pension plan with respect to their salary up to EUR
103,317 per year for 2017. As is the case for all
employees who participate in the Dutch Collective
Defined Contribution pension plan who earn a salary
above this amount per year, the Executive Board
members are compensated for the lack of pension
accrual by means of a savings allowance to be annually
determined (see below).

Benefits

Executive Board members are eligible for additional
benefits (e.g. the use of company cars, contributions to
company savings plans and, if applicable, expatriate
allowances). This may also include banking and insurance
ING Group Annual Report 2017

90

benefits from ING on the same terms that apply to other
employees of ING in the Netherlands. In addition, tax and
financial planning services are provided to ensure
compliance with the relevant legislative requirements.

Tenure

All current members of the Executive Board have a
commission contract for an indefinite period of time
including an appointment or reappointment period of four
years as approved at the AGM. In the case of an
involuntary exit, Executive Board members are eligible for
an exit arrangement. These arrangements are subject to
specific requirements (e.g. limited to a maximum of one
year of base salary, no reward for failure).

Supervisory Board discretion to review the
policy and the remuneration paid

In accordance with the Executive Board’s remuneration
policy as adopted at the AGM and as described in this
chapter, the Supervisory Board annually determines the
actual remuneration for the Executive Board members
based on the advice given by the Remuneration
Committee of the Supervisory Board.
The Remuneration Committee is among others
responsible for the preparation of decisions to be taken
by the Supervisory Board regarding remuneration of
individual members of the Executive Board.
Remuneration proposals for the individual Executive
Board members are drawn up in accordance with the
applicable Executive Board remuneration policy and
cover the following aspects: remuneration structure, the
amount of the fixed and variable remuneration
components, the performance criteria used, scenario
analyses that are carried out and, if and when
considered appropriate, the internal pay relativities. The
Remuneration Committee takes note of individual
Executive Board members’ views with regard to the
amount and structure of their own remuneration,
including the aspects as mentioned above.
It is the responsibility of the Supervisory Board to take
into account the interests of all stakeholders, as well as
long-term value creation, business continuity and
sustainable growth, when determining the Executive
Board’s remuneration.
The legal, regulatory and market environment is
continually changing and this may impact ING. In order
to ensure that ING can adapt to these dynamic and
uncertain factors, the Supervisory Board will continue to
re-evaluate the Executive Board remuneration policy as
and when required.
The Supervisory Board has the authority and obligation
in specific cases to impose holdback and/or claw back on
variable remuneration awarded to a member of the
Executive Board based on the same criteria that apply to
all staff. It also has the authority to adjust variable
remuneration if application of the predetermined
performance criteria results in an undesired outcome.
The Supervisory Board also has decision-making
authority in situations that are not addressed in the
policy.

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Remuneration report – continued

Special employment conditions

Special employment conditions, such as commitments required to secure the recruitment of new executives, may be
used in circumstances subject to approval by the Supervisory Board.

2017 Remuneration Executive Board

In this section we have included the compensation details of the current and former Executive Board members
relating to the period that they were members of the Executive Board.
The Executive Board’s remuneration for 2017 is in accordance with the Executive Board’s remuneration policy. The
policy specifies that total direct compensation should be slightly below the median of comparable positions in the
Euro Stoxx 50 peer group. For the CRO and CFO total direct compensation is in line with this ambition. For the CEO
however, the total direct compensation is lagging behind and is significantly below the median of the CEO benchmark.
For the Supervisory Board, this remains a point of concern. In order to ensure continued delivery on customer
promises, strategic priorities and key financial and non-financial targets, ING needs to be able to attract the best
talent for its Executive Board.
In line with the revised Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the internal ratio of the Executive Board members’
remuneration and that of a representative reference group was determined. For this ratio, ING deems most relevant
the total direct compensation of the CEO compared to the average total direct compensation of all approximately
54,000 ING employees worldwide. For the CEO a ratio of 1:33 applies. For the sake of transparency we also calculated
the ratio of the total direct compensation of the other Executive Board members compared to the average total direct
compensation of all ING employees. On that basis for the other EB members (CFO/CRO) a ratio of 1:23 applies.1
In 2017, Patrick Flynn stepped down from the Executive Board immediately after the AGM 2017 that was held on 8
May 2017 as his appointment term ended without having been proposed for reappointment. In line with applicable
regulations, a severance payment equal to 100% of his base salary (i.e. EUR 1,203,600) was granted. Wilfred Nagel
decided to retire from the Executive Board. His employment contract ended at 31 January 2018. No severance
payment was granted.

2017 Executive Board base salary

In 2017 the Supervisory Board decided to increase the base salary of the CEO by 3% with effect from 1 January 2017.
The base salary of the other Executive Board members remained the same in 2017.

2017 Executive Board performance indicators

As indicated in the remuneration policy, the performance of the Executive Board is assessed based on financial and
non-financial indicators. For 2017, performance indicators applied included the following:
Performance indicators2

Non-financial performance indicators

Financial performance indicators

• The accelaration of the Think Forward strategy:
improving customer experience and enabling
commercial growth
• Driving innovation to create a differentiating
customer experience
• Realising a bank-wide high performance culture
through the Step Up Performance Management
and Think Forward Leadership programmes
• Proceeding on digital transformation programmes
to improve customer experience and realise further
efficiency gains
• Increasing ING’s social and environmental impact
through our sustainability activities

•
•
•
•
•

Underlying net result
Underlying return on IFRS equity
Common equity Tier 1 ratio
Underlying operating expenses
Underlying cost/income ratio

2017 Executive Board performance evaluation

The table on the next page highlights key achievements, collectively accomplished by the Executive Board in 2017 in the
areas mentioned, reflecting both the overall ambitions of ING and the specific performance targets agreed with the
Supervisory Board at the beginning of 2017. Although not everything is accomplished, the following points were
successful.
1 Total direct compensation comprises fixed base salary and variable remuneration, excluding benefits such as pension arrangements, and
allowances. Since both the CRO and CFO were appointed in 2017 variable remuneration has been calculated based on the at target percentage.
2 The combined performance indicators of the Executive Board members.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

91

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Remuneration report – continued

Key achievements

Strategy
implementation

• Accelerated the Think Forward Strategy by growing customer bases in Wholesale and Retail Banking and
major investments made to create a differentiating customer experience.
• Comprises of the four major digital transformation programmes:
• Orange Bridge: Redeployment process applied to around 5,000 staff; cross-border agile way of working
implemented; merger of ING Belgium and Record Bank well on track.
• Welcome: Fully digital current account opening launched; back office and call centre automation
increased.
• Model Bank: new multi-country customer interaction platform currently being reviewed.
• Wholesale Banking TOM: Consolidation of FM trading activities on track; continued roll-outs for a
common global IT lending platform.
• Ranked number one in Net Promoter Scores relative to competitors in 7 of 13 retail markets.

Capability
development

• All executives and around 1,500 managers participated in the phased roll-out of the Think Forward
Leadership programme that amplifies the behaviours and skills leaders and managers need to reach our
goals and unite ING.
• Global roll-out of the Step Up Performance Management programme to strengthen ING’s performance
culture (roll-out to be completed in 2018).
• Recognised for our continuous efforts to drive success through diversity and inclusion (e.g. financial
services ranked number one in LGBT workplace inclusion at the Workplace Pride Awards and included in
the Bloomberg Gender Equality Index).

Innovation

• New initiatives developed and aligned with partners to improve the customer experience, including:
• A digital money jar called Everyday Round Up by ING in Australia that rounds up card purchases and
puts the difference straight into the customer’s savings account (40,000 activations within the first two
weeks).
• A Digital Shoebox added to the mobile banking app for small business customers that links receipts and
bills directly to transactions.
• A new tool in Wholesale Banking called Katana that helps bond traders make faster and sharper pricing
decisions using data visualisation and predictive analytics.
• Re-entering the UK retail banking market with the introduction of Yolt, a free mobile app to help people
keeping track of their finances.
• Establishment of ING Ventures, a EUR 300 million fund that will invest in start-ups and companies that
have already gained some market traction. ING Ventures will help accelerate the pace of innovation,
one of our priorities.
• Establishment of a partnership with online wealth manager Scalable Capital in Germany, expanding
ING’s offering to customers with digital investment management services, also known as robo-advice.
• A couple of major milestones achieved in the blockchain area, including:
• Development of a code known as ‘zero-knowledge range proof’ (ZKRP) that is ten times more efficient
in keeping information private on a ledger.
• Together with other industry players started work on a new venture to create a real-time blockchainbased digital platform to manage physical energy commodities transactions from trade entry to final
settlement.

Sustainability

• Sustainable Investments launched of EUR 100 million in capital to support sustainable ‘scale-ups’ with a
proven concept and positive environmental impact.
• Announced acceleration of reducing our exposure to coal power generation to close to zero by 2025 in
order to support the transition to a low-carbon economy.
• Demonstrated excellent performance on sustainability in the ratings (e.g. ING remained a sustainability
leader in the banks industry group with a score of 85 out of 100 by sustainability research leader
Sustainalytics and scored 89 out of 100 in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices compared to an average
industry score of 58).

Financial
performance

• Increased number of new retail customers by 1.6 million to 37.4 million; number of primary relationships
up by 0.9 million to 10.8 million.
• Achieved net profit of EUR 4,905 million, up 5.5% from 2016. Underlying net profit is EUR 4,957 million,
broadly flat on 2016 (EUR 4,976 million), notwithstanding persistent pressures from the low interest rate
environment.
• Grew core lending by EUR 26.9 billion (+4.8%); increased customer deposits by EUR 19.0 billion (+3.6%).
• Realised underlying return on equity for ING Group of 10.2%, up from 10.1% in 2016.
• Improved CET1 ratio of ING Group to 14.7%.
• Underlying operating expenses (excluding regulatory costs) moved from EUR 8.6 billion in 2016 to EUR 8.9
billion in 2017. Cost/Income ratio changed from 54.2% in 2016 to 55.5% in 2017.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

92

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Remuneration report – continued

2017 Executive Board variable remuneration

The performance of the Executive Board is evaluated against financial and non-financial performance indicators.
Variable remuneration in 2017 of the CFO and CRO was mainly based on non-financial performance indicators. The
variable remuneration in 2017 for the CEO was based for more than 50% on non-financial performance indicators. As
evidenced by the table above, the collective performance of the Executive Board members was broadly on target.
There were minor differences in achievement of personal targets. This explains why variable remuneration for the CEO
was calculated at 17% for the CFO at 13% and for the CRO at 13%.
The table below shows the remuneration awarded to the individual Executive Board members with respect to the
performance years 2017, 2016 and 2015.
Total direct compensation of the individual members of the Executive Board
2017

2016
amount

number of
shares

2015

amount

number of
shares

Ralph Hamers (CEO)
Base salary
Variable remuneration (fully in shares)1

1,713,000
293,000

18,547

1,663,000
316,000

23,092

1,630,000
293,000

28,404

Koos Timmermans (CFO)²
Base salary
Variable remuneration (fully in shares)1

781,000
104,000

6,612

-

-

-

-

Steven van Rijswijk (CRO)²
Base salary
Variable remuneration (fully in shares)1

781,000
104,000

6,584

-

-

-

-

Patrick Flynn (former CFO)²
Base salary
Variable remuneration (fully in shares)1

423,000
63,000

4,010

1,204,000
217,000

15,838

1,180,000
153,000

14,850

Wilfred Nagel (former CRO)²
Base salary
Variable remuneration (fully in shares)1

702,000
-

-

1,204,000
217,000

15,838

1,180,000
189,000

18,278

amounts in euros (rounded figures)

amount

number of
shares

1 The number of shares is based on the average ING share price on the day on which the 2017 year-end results were published. The shares will
be awarded in May 2018.
2 Koos Timmermans and Steven van Rijswijk were appointed to the Executive Board immediately following the 8 May 2017 AGM, while Patrick
Flynn and Wilfred Nagel left as per the end of the 8 May 2017 AGM and 1 August 2017 respectively. Thus the figures for Koos Timmermans,
Steven van Rijswijk, Patrick Flynn and Wilfred Nagel reflect a partial year as an Executive Board member.

In 2017 no holdback or claw back was applied to paid, unvested or vested variable remuneration of any of the
Executive Board members.

Pension costs

Members of the Executive Board participate in the Collective Defined Contribution (CDC) pension plan as part of the
Executive Board remuneration policy. In 2017 pension accrual only applies to salary up to an amount of EUR 103,317.
The table below shows the pension costs of the individual members of the Executive Board in 2017, 2016 and 2015.
Pension costs of the individual members of the Executive Board
amounts in euros (rounded figures)

Ralph Hamers
Koos Timmermans¹
Steven van Rijswijk¹
Patrick Flynn¹
Wilfred Nagel¹

2017

2016

2015

30,000
19,000
19,000
10,000
17,000

26,000
26,000
26,000

25,000
25,000
25,000

1 Koos Timmermans and Steven van Rijswijk were appointed to the Executive Board as per 8 May 2017, while Patrick Flynn and Wilfred Nagel
left as per 8 May 2017 and 1 August 2017 respectively . Thus the figures for Koos Timmermans, Steven van Rijswijk, Patrick Flynn and Wilfred
Nagel reflect a partial year as an Executive Board member.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

93

Contents

Corporate
governance

Report of the
Executive Board

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Remuneration report – continued

Benefits

The individual members of the Executive Board receive other emoluments, including savings allowances for the loss of
pension benefits for salary above EUR 103,317 for 2017, employer contributions to savings schemes, reimbursement
of costs related to home/work commuting, costs associated with the company car and costs associated with housing
and schooling (for expats).
The other emoluments amounted in 2017, 2016 and 2015 to the following costs.
Other emoluments
2017

2016

2015

624,000
290,000
274,000
181,000
247,000

553,000
403,000
370,000

473,000
433,000
322,000

amounts in euros (rounded figures)

Ralph Hamers
Koos Timmermans¹
Steven van Rijswijk¹
Patrick Flynn¹
Wilfred Nagel¹

1 Koos Timmermans and Steven van Rijswijk were appointed to the Executive Board as per 8 May 2017, while Patrick Flynn and Wilfred Nagel
left as per 8 May 2017 and 1 August 2017 respectively. Thus the figures for Koos Timmermans, Steven van Rijswijk, Patrick Flynn and Wilfred
Nagel reflect a partial year as an Executive Board member.

Long-term incentives awarded in previous years

In 2017, no long-term incentives (other than the shares disclosed in the table on page 96, were awarded to the
Executive Board members.

Employee stock options

The table below contains information on the outstanding employee stock options and the movements during the
financial year of employee stock options held by the members of the Executive Board as of 31 December 2017, which
were all awarded to these board members in roles within ING prior to their appointment to the Executive Board.
Options held by the members of the Executive Board

Number of options

Ralph Hamers

Koos Timmermans

Steven van Rijswijk

Patrick Flynn
Wilfred Nagel

ING Group Annual Report 2017

Outstanding
as at 31
December
2016
14,889
16,957
19,985
22,124

Exercised in
2017
0
0
0
0

Waived or
expired in
2017
14,889
0
0
0

46,157

0

46,157

0

€ 24.72

22 Mar 2010

22 Mar 2017

56,405

0

0

56,405

€ 19.53

15 May 2011

15 May 2018

20,675

0

0

20,675

€ 14.36

17 Sep 2011

17 Sep 2018

1,640

0

1,640

0

€ 24.72

22 Mar 2010

22 Mar 2017

3,971

0

3,971

0

€ 24.72

22 Mar 2010

22 Mar 2017

2,770

0

0

2,770

€ 16.66

13 Mar 2011

13 Mar 2018

9,044

0

0

9,044

€ 16.66

13 Mar 2011

13 Mar 2018

1,688

0

0

1,688

€ 2.90

19 Mar 2012

19 Mar 2019

11,658

0

0

11,658

€ 2.90

19 Mar 2012

19 Mar 2019

2,318

0

0

2,318

€ 7.35

17 Mar 2013

17 Mar 2020

10,694

0

0

10,694

€ 7.35

17 Mar 2013

17 Mar 2020

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

9,530

0

9,530

0

€ 24.72

22 Mar 2010

22 Mar 2017

12,436

0

0

12,436

€ 16.66

13 Mar 2011

13 Mar 2018

94

Outstanding
as at 31
December
2017
0
16,957
19,985
22,124

Grant price
in euros
€ 24.72
€ 16.66
€ 2.90
€ 7.35

Vesting date
22 Mar 2010
13 Mar 2011
19 Mar 2012
17 Mar 2013

Expiry date
22 Mar 2017
13 Mar 2018
19 Mar 2019
17 Mar 2020

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Remuneration report – continued

Shares

Deferred shares are shares conditionally granted subject to a tiered vesting over a period of five years (for awards
in 2017 and before), of which the ultimate value of each deferred share will be based on ING’s share price on the
vesting date (the opening share price).
For the Executive Board members the following shares vested during 2017:
Shares vested for the Executive Board during 2017
Granting date

Vesting date

Nr. of shares
granted4

Nr. of shares
vested

Vesting price

27 March 2013

27 March 2017

25,812

3,443

€ 13.60

27 March 2014

27 March 2017

6,215

828

€ 13.60

11 May 2016

11 May 2017

28,404

5,680

€ 15.45

11 May 2017

11 May 2017

23,092

9,237

€ 15.45

14 May 2014

14 May 2017

32,267

6,454

€ 15.35

13 May 2015

13 May 2017

30,012

6,002

€ 15.35

11 May 2016

11 May 2017

18,278

3,655

€ 15.45

11 May 2017

11 May 2017

15,838

6,335

€ 15.45

-

-

-

-

-

11 May 2016

11 May 2017

18,278

3,655

€ 15.45

11 May 2017

11 May 2017

15,838

6,335

€ 15.45

Shares

Ralph Hamers¹

Koos
Timmermans¹

Steven van
Rijswijk³
Patrick Flynn³
Wilfred Nagel

LSPP Deferred
share units²
LSPP Deferred
share units²
LSPP Deferred
shares
LSPP Upfront
shares
LSPP Deferred
shares
LSPP Deferred
shares
LSPP Deferred
shares
LSPP Upfront
shares
LSPP Deferred
shares
LSPP Upfront
shares

1 Shares granted to Ralph Hamers in March 2013 and in March 2014 and Koos Timmermans were awarded for their performance in positions
prior to their appointments to the Executive Board.
2 Deferred share units of Ralph Hamers are cash settled instruments of which the ultimate value will be based on ING Group’s share price at the
vesting date.
3 Shares granted to Steven van Rijswijk and Patrick Flynn did not vest in 2017 in their capacity as an Executive Board Member.
4 Number of shares granted includes both deferred and upfront part awarded at the granting date.

As recognised in the profit or loss statement of 2017, the expenses per Executive Board Member (active on 31
December 2017), whilst serving on the Executive Board, amount to EUR 2.6 million for the CEO, EUR 1.4 million for the
CFO and EUR 1.1 million for the CRO.

Loans and advances to Executive Board members

The table below presents the loans and advances provided to Executive Board members and outstanding on
31 December 2017, 2016 and 2015.
Loans and advances to the individual members of the Executive Board
amounts in
thousands of
euros

Amount
outstanding
31
December
Ralph Hamers
2,499
Koos
Timmermans
182
Steven van
Rijswijk
-

2017

Average
interest
rate
1.4%

2016

Amount
outstanding
31
Repayments December
2,499

Average
interest
rate
2.6%

2015

Amount
outstanding
31
Repayments December
2,499

Average
interest Repayrate ments
2.5%
-

6.2%

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Loans and advances of former members of the Executive Board who are not included in the table above amounted to
nil in 2017, EUR 350,000 in 2016 and EUR 500,000 in 2015.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

95

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Remuneration report – continued

ING shares held by Executive Board members

Executive Board members are encouraged to hold ING shares as a long-term investment to maintain alignment with
ING. The table below shows an overview of the shares held by members of the Executive Board at 31 December 2017,
2016 and 2015.
ING shares held by members of the Executive Board
number of shares

Ralph Hamers
Koos Timmermans
Steven van Rijswijk

2017

2016

2015

58,094
84,349
59,914

50,216

44,182

The number of ING shares of former members of the Executive Board who are not included in the table above
amounted to nil in 2017, 211,468 in 2016 and 200,791 in 2015.

2018 Remuneration Executive Board

More and more shareholders are calling for Executive Boards to be long-term oriented in their decision making. This
change in the market enables further alignment of interests that Executive Boards need to serve, between for instance
shareholders, society and regulations. This is also the objective of the recent focus in the Dutch Corporate Governance
Code, by proposing a long-term orientation of Executive Boards, incentivised by increasing the shareholding of
executives in the companies they serve and to hold these as long-term investments. At the same time, Dutch banking
regulations limit the variable reward for Executive Boards to a maximum of 20% of fixed salary.
In line with their responsibility to execute the Executive Board remuneration policy of compensating slightly below the
median of the Euro Stoxx 50, the Supervisory Board undertook an annual review of Executive Board Remuneration
levels against this policy that has been approved at the AGM in 2010. The remuneration levels of the members of the
ING Executive Board are below the median of the Euro Stoxx 50 benchmark, and in the case of the CEO position, even
significantly below. Data shows that the market median remuneration level of the Euro Stoxx 50 benchmark has
further increased and, as a consequence, the gap with the remuneration of the CEO position has further widened.
Over the past few years the Supervisory Board repeatedly expressed their concern about this as ING needs to be able
to attract and retain the best (international) talent for its Executive Board. Based on the outcome of the annual review
the Supervisory Board decided that it needs to act now . The Supervisory Board wants to ensure that the policy as
approved by the AGM is lived up to both to the letter and to the spirit of it.
Reflecting on the past five years, ING has more than exceeded market expectations, evidenced amongst others by
very robust financial results and position, a strengthened capital base, relatively high customer satisfaction levels in
the many markets ING operates in, relatively high scores in the biennial Organisational Health Index and the Winning
Performance Culture employee engagement survey, its track record on sustainability and the many accolades ING
received over the years.
To determine the appropriate level of total remuneration (fixed + variable remuneration) for the CEO position, the
Supervisory Board requested an external remuneration consultant to provide an update of the Euro Stoxx 50
benchmark. This showed median total remuneration of EUR 4,900,000, consisting of fixed remuneration of EUR
1,300,000 and variable remuneration of EUR 3,600,000. The Supervisory Board also requested a modified benchmark
that would take into account the fact that ING’s fixed remuneration for Executive Board members is higher than the
benchmark, whilst variable remuneration is significantly lower, due to the regulatory cap of 20% on variable
remuneration. This modified benchmark takes into account that one Euro fixed remuneration is ‘worth’ more than one
Euro of variable remuneration. This led to a modified median benchmark of EUR 3,255,000, representing a more
prudent approach. The graphs on the following page show both benchmarks.
Based on this information and carefully balancing all stakeholder interests, the Supervisory Board agreed to propose
at the AGM the following amendments to the Executive Board remuneration policy:
(i) the introduction of a new fixed remuneration component, called ‘fixed shares’. In addition to its authority under
the existing Executive Board remuneration policy to increase the total direct compensation to a level just below the
median of the Euro Stoxx 50, the Supervisory Board may now also decide to increase the gross cash base salary
of a member of the Executive Board in the form of ‘fixed shares’, with a value up to a maximum of 50% of the
gross cash base salary. In case of fixed shares, each month, one-twelfth of the agreed value will be mandatorily
converted into fixed shares against the prevailing share price for that month (i.e. the opening price of the first
trading day of shares listed on Euronext in that month), subject to a mandatory ‘sell to cover’, requiring the
Executive Board member to sell as many shares as needed to settle any wage or income taxes due on these. The
fixed shares component is solely tied to the role of the Executive Board member, the relevant market benchmark
and is not subject to any performance condition (if performance conditions would have been set, the fixed shares

ING Group Annual Report 2017

96

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Remuneration report – continued

would count as variable compensation under the 20% cap). Once awarded, they cannot be taken away at a later
stage, even though the value of these fixed shares will vary in line with variations in ING’s share price. As per the
Dutch Corporate Governance Code, a retention period of five years will apply from the date of conversion to fixed
shares.
(ii) the Supervisory Board may decide that until the end of the tenure of an Executive Board member a mandatory
minimum shareholding requirement up to one year gross cash base salary plus fixed shares will apply, including
the principle ‘once achieved, always achieved’.
The Supervisory Board has decided to change the remuneration for the CEO position as from 1 January 2018 as
follows:
• Increase in gross cash base salary of 2.2% to EUR 1,750,000.
• Subject to approval at the AGM of the amendment to the remuneration policy, fixed shares with a value equal to
50% of the gross cash base salary
• Subject to approval at the AGM of the amendment to the remuneration policy, a mandatory minimum shareholding
requirement will apply equal to one year gross cash base salary plus fixed shares.
• No change in variable remuneration, which continues to be capped at 20% of fixed remuneration (gross cash base
salary plus fixed shares) with a target of 16% and which remains for 100% awarded in ING shares, significantly
beyond the 50% that is minimally required by regulations.
The table below shows both current total remuneration and proposed new remuneration for the CEO. The fixed shares
together with variable remuneration in shares and the mandatory shareholding requirement ensure full alignment of
remuneration of the CEO position with shareholders and investors and are testament to the long-term view the
Supervisory Board takes where it concerns executive remuneration. This is fully in line with the principles of the Dutch
Corporate Governance Code and other relevant regulations.
Remuneration CEO position vs. Euro Stoxx 50 benchmark
CEO
amounts in thousands of euros

4,900

5000
4000
3000

3,045
420

2000

1,987
274

1000

1,713

1,750

Current
Total Direct
Compensation

Proposed
Total Direct
Compensation

3,600

3,255
450

875
2,805

0

1,300
Euro Stoxx 50
benchmark

Variable Remuneration (VR)
Fixed remuneration
Variable Remuneration (VR) at 16% target VR
Fixed shares
Gross cash base salary

Euro Stoxx 50
benchmark
(modiﬁed)

This new remuneration level remains approximately 7% below the lower, ‘modified’ Euro Stoxx 50 benchmark and,
thus, in line with the principles of the Dutch Banking Code and ING’s Executive Board remuneration policy. It reflects
the prudent approach taken by the Supervisory Board and the long-term sustainable character of ING’s Executive
Board remuneration policy.
In view of the fact that total remuneration levels of the other two Executive Board members, the CFO and the CRO, are
much closer to the median of their relative market, the Supervisory Board decided not to adjust their remuneration
this year.
The Supervisory Board will continue to monitor the development of international remuneration practices and will
continue to support the Executive Board remuneration policy of compensating slightly below the median of the Euro
Stoxx 50 benchmark.

Remuneration Supervisory Board
Supervisory Board remuneration policy

The remuneration policy for the Supervisory Board, as approved at the AGM on 25 April 2016, aims to:
• Provide a simple and transparent structure
• Bring remuneration levels in line with peers and with levels adequate to attract qualified (international) Supervisory
Board members
• Align remuneration with increased responsibilities and time spent.
ING Group Annual Report 2017

97

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Remuneration report – continued

As per 9 May 2017, the Nomination Committee and Corporate Governance Committee merged. The remuneration of the
combined commitee was brought in line with the other committees. The Supervisory Board remuneration policy for 2017 is
shown below:
Supervisory Board remuneration structure
amounts in euros

Annual remuneration
Chairman Supervisory Board
Vice Chairman Supervisory Board
Supervisory Board Member
Committee fees (annual amounts)
Chairman Committee
Member Committee
Chairman Corporate Governance Committee (until 9 May 2017)
Member Corporate Governance Committee (until 9 May 2017)
Attendance fees (per meeting)
Attendance fee outside country of residence
Attendance fee outside continent of residence

125,000
95,000
70,000
20,000
10,000
7,500
5,000
2,000
7,500

In addition, members of the Supervisory Board are reimbursed for their travel and business related expenses relating
to ING.

2017 Remuneration Supervisory Board

The table below shows the remuneration, including attendance fees per Supervisory Board member.
2017 Remuneration Supervisory Board
2017

amounts in euros
(rounded figures)

Jeroen van der Veer
Hermann-Josef Lamberti
Henk Breukink
Mariana Gheorghe
Robert Reibestein
Isabel Martín Castellá¹
Eric Boyer de la Giroday
Ann Sherry²
Hans Wijers³
Jan Peter Balkenende4

Remuneration5
169,000
141,000
105,000
94,000
112,000
46,000
106,000
94,000
35,000
27,000

VAT Remuneration
35,000
178,000
149,000
22,000
115,000
98,000
24,000
114,000
114,000
114,000
85,000
7,000
6,000

2016

VAT Remuneration
37,000
122,000
111,000
24,000
83,000
40,000
24,000
76,000
92,000
92,000

2015

VAT
26,000
17,000
16,000

1 Isabel Martín Castellá left the Supervisory Board as of 9 May 2017. The remuneration figures for 2017 reflect a partial year as a member of the
Supervisory Board.
2 Ann Sherry was a member of the Supervisory Board from 25 April 2016 up to 14 September 2017. The remuneration figures for 2016 and 2017
reflect a partial year as a member of the Supervisory Board.
3 Hans Wijers was appointed to the Supervisory Board by the 8 May 2017 AGM. His Supervisory Board membership became effective as of 1
September 2017. The remuneration figures for 2017 reflect a partial year as a member of the Supervisory Board.
4 Jan Peter Balkenende was appointed to the Supervisory Board by the 8 May 2017 AGM. He joined the meetings of the Supervisory Board as
an observer in between 9 May and 1 September 2017. His Supervisory Board membership became effective as of 1 September 2017. The
remuneration figures for 2017 reflect a partial year as a member of the Supervisory Board.
5 Margarete Haase was appointed to the Supervisory Board by the 8 May 2017 AGM. She joined the meetings of the Supervisory Board as an
observer since 9 May 2017. In light of the planned reduction of the number of her directorships, her appointment will become effective as per
1 May 2018 as decided by the Supervisory Board in January 2018. Hence there are no remuneration figures to report over 2017.

Compensation of former members of the Supervisory Board who are not included in the table above amounted to nil
in 2017, EUR 36,000 in 2016 and EUR 160,000 in 2015.

Loans and advances to Supervisory Board members

Supervisory Board members may obtain banking and insurance services from ING Group subsidiaries in the ordinary
course of their business and on terms that are customary in the sector. The Supervisory Board members do not
receive privileged financial services. As of 31 December 2017 there are no loans and advances outstanding to
Supervisory Board members.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

98

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

ING shares and employee stock options held by Supervisory Board members

Supervisory Board members are permitted to hold ING shares as a long-term investment. The table below shows the
holdings by members of the Supervisory Board at 31 December 2017, 2016 and 2015.
ING shares held by the members of the Supervisory Board
2017

2016

2015

119,469
5,700
47,565

119,469
5,700
47,565

119,469
5,700
47,565

number of shares

Jeroen van der Veer
Hermann-Josef Lamberti
Eric Boyer de la Giroday

The following table contains information on the employee stock options outstanding by, and awards vested for, the
members of the Supervisory Board.
Employee stock options on ING Groep N.V. shares held by members of the Supervisory Board at 31 December 2017

number of stock options

Eric Boyer de la Giroday

ING Group Annual Report 2017

Outstanding
as at
31 December
2017
113,385

Expired in
2017
113,479

99

Outstanding
as at
31 December
2016
226,864

Expired in
2016
92,984

Outstanding
as at
31 December
2015
319,848

Expired in
2015
69,542

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Works councils
Central works council Bank (COR)
December 2017
E. (Edward) Boeijenga, chairman
J. (Yoap) Brugmann, deputy chairman
F.E. (Ferry) van Wezel, secretary
Y.J. (Yvonne) Vork (works council support)
J.P. (Jan) Driessen
P.E. (Egon) Gijsbers
I.M. (Michiel) van Lagen
A. (Arie) Noomen
M. (Margriet) Pel
J. (Judith) Roosken
M. (Michel) Rutte
M.T. (Marinus) Stoffers
J.H.C. (John) Stribos
E. (Erik) Timmerman
M. (Marcel) de Valk

European works council December 2017

Austria: Otmar Haneder, (deputy Ernst Szoeke)
Belgium: Jean Pierre Lambert, Herman van Eesbeek,
Franck Goethals, Ahmed Sanhayi
Bulgaria: Andrew Nitov, (deputy Angela Licheva)
Czech Republic: Martina Žatecká,
(deputy Alena Klaassenová)
France: Stephen Minary, (deputy Mourad Benzaaza)
Germany: Norbert Lucas (chairman), Andre Fioritto,
(deputy Ulrich Probst)
Hungary: Géza Bodor (vice chairman), (deputy Beáta Vodli)
Italy: Claudio Casazza, (deputy Sami Zambon)
Luxembourg: Alain Back, (deputy Raphael Pasquarelli)
Netherlands: Maarten Kramer (secretary), Jan van Hest,
Bert Woltheus, Judith Roosken, Wim van Huizen
Poland: Mariusz Cieslik, Jakub Dzianowicz, Arthur Banasik
Romania: Adrian Piscu, Magdalena Nitu, (deputy Vlad Pop)
Slovakia: Miroslav Fliega, (deputy Julius Kis)
Spain: Francisco Javier Díaz Mosquera (vice secretary),
Javier Berraco Criado, (deputy Javier Losa Bordallo)
United Kingdom: Mark Foley,
(deputy Moises Gerstein Alvarez)
Works council support: Miriam Rozenbrand,
Karin van de Schouw

ING Group Annual Report 2017

100

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Contents

Consolidated annual accounts
Consolidated statement of financial position
Consolidated statement of profit or loss
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated statement of cash flows
Notes to the consolidated annual accounts
Notes to the accounting policies
Reporting entity
Authorisation of the Consolidated annual accounts
Basis of preparation of the Consolidated annual accounts
1 Accounting policies
Notes to the Consolidated statement of financial position
2 Cash and balances with central banks
3 Loans and advances to banks
4 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
5 Investments
6 Loans and advances to customers
7 Investments in associates and joint ventures
8 Property and equipment
9 Intangible assets
10 Other assets
11 Deposits from banks
12 Customer deposits
13 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
14 Provisions
15 Other liabilities
16 Debt securities in issue
17 Subordinated loans
18 Equity
Notes to the Consolidated statement of profit or loss
19 Net interest income
20 Net commission income
21 Valuation results and net trading income
22 Investment income
23 Result on disposal of group companies
24 Other income
25 Staff expenses
26 Other operating expenses
27 Discontinued operations
28 Earnings per ordinary share
29 Dividend per ordinary share
Notes to the Consolidated statement of cash flows
30 Net cash flow from investing activities
31 Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities
32 Cash and cash equivalents
Segment reporting
33 Segments
34 Information on geographical areas

ING Group Annual Report 2017

101

103
104
106
107
110
112
112
112
112
112
132
132
132
134
136
138
140
141
143
144
144
144
145
147
148
148
150
157
158
158
160
160
160
161
164
165
167
168
168
168
168
169
177

Contents - continued

Additional notes to the Consolidated annual accounts
35 Pension and other post-employment benefits
36 Taxation
37 Fair value of assets and liabilities
38 Derivatives and hedge accounting
39 Assets by contractual maturity
40 Liabilities by maturity
41 Assets not freely disposable
42 Transfer of financial assets
43 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities
44 Contingent liabilities and commitments
45 Legal proceedings
46 Consolidated companies and businesses acquired and divested
47 Principal subsidiaries
48 Structured entities
49 Related parties
50 ING’s Restructuring
51 Subsequent events
Risk management
Capital management

184
187
190
202
205
206
207
208
208
213
214
216
217
218
220
222
222
223
289

Parent company annual accounts
Parent company statement of financial position
Parent company statement of profit or loss
Parent company statement of changes in equity
Notes to the parent company annual accounts

295
296
297
299

Other information
Independent auditor’s report
Articles of Association – Appropriation of results

309
315

Additional information
Risk factors
Non-financial appendix
Non-GAAP measures
General information

ING Group Annual Report 2017

316
337
354
355

102

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Consolidated statement of financial position
as at 31 December

2017

2016

Cash and balances with central banks 2

21,989

18,144

Loans and advances to banks 3

28,811

28,858

in EUR million

Assets

Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 4
− trading assets

116,748

114,504

− non-trading derivatives

2,231

2,490

− designated as at fair value through profit or loss

4,242

5,099

− available-for-sale

69,730

82,912

− held-to-maturity

9,343

8,751

574,535

563,660

Investments in associates and joint ventures 7

1,088

1,141

Property and equipment 8

1,801

2,002

Intangible assets 9

1,469

1,484

Investments 5

Loans and advances to customers 6

Current tax assets

324

314

Deferred tax assets 36

818

1,000

Other assets 10
Total assets

13,087

14,722

846,216

845,081

Liabilities
Deposits from banks 11
Customer deposits 12

36,821

31,964

539,799

522,942

73,596

83,167

Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 13
− trading liabilities
− non-trading derivatives

2,331

3,541

11,215

12,266

Current tax liabilities

750

546

Deferred tax liabilities 36

752

919

1,713

2,028

− designated as at fair value through profit or loss

Provisions 14
Other liabilities 15

16,064

16,852

Debt securities in issue 16

96,086

103,234

Subordinated loans 17

15,968

17,223

795,095

794,682

17,045

16,989

Total liabilities
Equity 18
Share capital and share premium
Other reserves

4,362

5,897

Retained earnings

28,999

26,907

Shareholders’ equity (parent)

50,406

49,793

Non-controlling interests
Total equity
Total liabilities and equity

References relate to the accompanying notes. These form an integral part of the Consolidated annual accounts.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

103

715

606

51,121

50,399

846,216

845,081

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Consolidated statement of profit or loss
for the years ended 31 December

2017

in EUR million

2017

2016

2016

2015

2015

Continuing operations
Interest income

43,958

Interest expense

–30,244

Net interest income 19

44,182

46,321

–30,941
13,714

–33,760
13,241

12,561

Commission income

3,865

3,581

3,411

Commission expense

–1,155

–1,148

–1,093

Net commission income 20

2,710

2,433

2,318

Valuation results and net trading income 21

628

1,134

1,283

Investment income 22

192

421

123

Share of result from associates and joint ventures 7

178

88

492

1

1

2

Result on disposal of group companies 23
Other income 24
Total income
Addition to loan loss provisions 6

350

173

66

17,773

17,491

16,845

676

974

1,347

Staff expenses 25

5,202

5,039

4,972

Other operating expenses 26

4,627

5,575

4,354

10,505

11,588

10,673

7,268

5,903

6,172

Total expenses
Result before tax from continuing operations
Taxation 36

2,281

1,618

1,637

Net result from continuing operations

4,987

4,285

4,535

Discontinued operations 27
Net result from discontinued operations

793

Net result from classification as discontinued operations

3

Net result from disposal of discontinued operations
Total net result from discontinued operations
Net result (before non-controlling interests)
Net result attributable to Non-controlling interests
Net result attributable to Equityholders of the parent

441

–918

–

441

–122

4,987

4,726

4,413

82

75

403

4,905

4,651

4,010

References relate to the accompanying notes. These form an integral part of the Consolidated annual accounts.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

104

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Consolidated statement of profit or loss of ING Group - continued

in EUR million

2017

2016

2015

82

75

69

82

75

403

4,905

4,210

4,466

Net result attributable to Non-controlling interests
− from continuing operations
− from discontinued operations

334

Net result attributable to Equityholders of the parent
− from continuing operations
− from discontinued operations

441

–456

4,905

4,651

4,010

2017

2016

2015

Basic earnings per ordinary share

1.26

1.20

1.04

Diluted earnings per ordinary share

1.26

1.20

1.03

Basic earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations

1.26

1.09

1.16

Diluted earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations

1.26

1.09

1.15

Dividend per ordinary share 29

0.67

0.66

0.65

in EUR

Earnings per ordinary share 28

Earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations 28

References relate to the accompanying notes. These form an integral part of the Consolidated annual accounts.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

105

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Consolidated statement of comprehensive
income
for the years ended 31 December

in EUR million

Net result (before non-controlling interests)

2017

2016

2015

4,987

4,726

4,413

26

5

35

–29

–65

24

–283

61

–414

–92

–146

–92

–525

77

–724

–864

–254

1,697

–5

–14

–5

3,215

4,390

5,535

3,106

4,390

5,006

3,215

4,390

5,535

Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to the statement of profit or loss:
Realised and unrealised revaluations property in own use
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit asset/liability 35
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to the statement of profit or loss:
Unrealised revaluations available-for-sale investments and other revaluations
Realised gains/losses transferred to the statement of profit or loss
Changes in cash flow hedge reserve
Transfer to insurance liabilities/DAC

601

Exchange rate differences
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures and other income
Total comprehensive income
Comprehensive income attributable to:
Non-controlling interests

109

Equityholders of the parent

529

References relate to the accompanying notes. These form an integral part of the Consolidated annual accounts.
Reference is made to Note 36 ‘Taxation’ for the disclosure on the income tax effects on each component of the other comprehensive
income.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

106

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Consolidated statement of changes in equity

in EUR million

Share
capital and
share
premium

Other
reserves

Retained
earnings

16,989

5,897

26,907

Balance as at 1 January 2017

Shareholders’
Nonequity controlling
(parent)
interests

Total
equity

49,793

606

50,399

–283

Unrealised revaluations available-for-sale investments and other
revaluations

–293

–293

10

Realised gains/losses transferred to the statement of profit or loss

–90

–90

–2

–92

–514

–514

–11

–525

Changes in cash flow hedge reserve
Realised and unrealised revaluations property in own use

26

Remeasurement of the net defined benefit asset/liability 35
Exchange rate differences
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures
and other income
Total amount recognised directly in other comprehensive income
Net result from continuing and discontinued operations
Total comprehensive income

26

26

–29

–29

–29

–894

–894

138

–143

–5

–1,682

–117

–1,799

17,045

ING Group Annual Report 2017

107

–5

4,752

4,905

82

4,987

3,106

109

3,215

–2,564

–2,564

4,362

–2,564

–6

–6

21

77

77

28,999

50,406

References relate to the accompanying notes. These form an integral part of the Consolidated annual accounts.
Changes in individual reserve components are presented in Note 18 ‘Equity’.

–1,772

4,635

56

Balance as at 31 December 2017

27

153

–6

Employee stock option and share plans

–864

–1,529

Dividends 29
Changes in treasury shares

30

715

51,121

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Consolidated statement of changes in equity of ING Group - continued

in EUR million

Share
capital and
share
premium

Other
reserves

Retained
earnings

16,982

5,759

25,091

Balance as at 1 January 2016
Unrealised revaluations available-for-sale investments and other
revaluations
Realised gains/losses transferred to the statement of profit or loss
Changes in cash flow hedge reserve
Unrealised revaluations property in own use
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit asset/liability 35
Exchange rate differences
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures
and other income
Total amount recognised directly in other comprehensive income

Shareholders’
Nonequity controlling
(parent)
interests
47,832

638

–19

Total
equity
48,470

80

80

–146

–146

61

111

111

5

5

5

–65

–65

–65

–232

–232

–146
–34

77

–22

–254

–336

251

–265

–14

4

–265

–261

–75

–14

Net result from continuing and discontinued operations

124

4,527

4,651

75

4,726

Total comprehensive income

128

4,262

4,390

–

4,390

–2,521

–2,521

–32

–2,553

Dividends 29
Changes in treasury shares

10

Employee stock option and share plans

7

Balance as at 31 December 2016

16,989

5,897

10
75

82

26,907

49,793

References relate to the accompanying notes. These form an integral part of the Consolidated annual accounts.
Changes in individual Reserve components are presented in Note 18 ‘Equity’.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

108

10
82
606

50,399

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Consolidated statement of changes in equity of ING Group - continued

in EUR million

Share
capital and
share
premium

Other
reserves

Retained
earnings

16,971

11,213

23,160

Balance as at 1 January 2015

Shareholders’
Nonequity controlling
(parent)
interests

Total
equity

51,344

8,072

59,416

–414

Unrealised revaluations available-for-sale investments and other
revaluations

–528

–528

114

Realised gains/losses transferred to the statement of profit or loss

–94

–94

2

–92

–715

–715

–9

–724

Unrealised revaluations property in own use

35

35

Remeasurement of the net defined benefit asset/liability 35

34

34

–10

24

609

609

–8

601

1,662

1,662

35

1,697

–7

–7

2

–5

Total amount recognised directly in other comprehensive income

996

996

126

1,122

Net result from continuing and discontinued operations

131

3,879

4,010

403

4,413

1,127

3,879

5,006

529

5,535

Impact of partial divestment of NN Group

–1,499

–270

–1,769

3,042

1,273

Impact of deconsolidation of NN Group

–5,345

–5,345

–10,801

–16,146

–1,393

–1,393

–118

–1,511

–19

–19

–15

–34

1

117

Changes in cash flow hedge reserve

Transfer to insurance liabilities/DAC
Exchange rate differences and other1
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures

Total comprehensive income

Dividends 29
Coupon on Undated subordinated notes issued by NN Group
Changes in treasury shares

28

Employee stock option and share plans

11

Changes in the composition of the group and other changes
Balance as at 31 December 2015

16,982

35

28
105

116

28

235

–371

–136

–72

–208

5,759

25,091

47,832

638

48,470

1 Exchange rate differences and other include the transfer of Revaluation reserves to Other reserves due to the partial sale of NN Group in February 2015.

References relate to the accompanying notes. These form an integral part of the Consolidated annual accounts.
Changes in individual Reserve components are presented in Note 18 ‘Equity’.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

109

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Consolidated statement of cash flows
for the years ended 31 December

in EUR million

2017

2016

2015

7,268

6,342

6,193

520

536

Cash flows from operating activities
Result before tax1
Adjusted for:

– depreciation and amortisation
– change in provisions for insurance and investment contracts
– addition to loan loss provisions

676

974

– other

703

1,495

–100

–1,691

–1,603

–1,450

Taxation paid
Changes in:

634
–1,499
1,347

– loans and advances to banks, not available on demand

–3,126

–1,162

6,766

– trading assets

–1,612

16,956

5,458

– non-trading derivatives

–2,239

1,812

–303

441

–3,401

–256

–20,505

–29,656

–23,030

– other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
– loans and advances to customers
– other assets

–430

–915

549

6,320

–342

5,179

– customer deposits

18,223

23,493

17,970

– trading liabilities

–9,575

–5,634

–8,276

–565

–432

–1,582

339

90

2,977

–5,253

8,553

10,577

– deposits from banks, not payable on demand

– other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
– provisions and other liabilities
Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities
Cash flows from investing activities
Investments and advances: – associates and joint ventures

–79

–49

–40

– available-for-sale investments

–21,601

–27,003

–47,858

– held-to-maturity investments

–3,609

–1,731

–3,457

–264

–351

–353

–40

–64

– property and equipment
– assets subject to operating leases
– investments for risk of policyholders

–37
–2,417

– other investments

–264

–288

Disposals and redemptions: – group companies (including cash in company disposed) 2
– associates and joint ventures3
– available-for-sale investments4
– held-to-maturity investments

–648
–6,926

245

1,071

1,175

32,788

32,540

52,675

2,675

630

1,219

– property and equipment

65

63

74

– assets subject to operating leases

14

12

– investments for risk of policyholders
– loans
– other investments
Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities 30

ING Group Annual Report 2017

17
7,566

110

1,815

1,295

9

9

3,201
5

11,754

6,134

4,196

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Consolidated statement of cash flows of ING Group - continued

2017

2016

2015

Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities

–5,253

8,553

10,577

Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities 30

11,754

6,134

4,196

in EUR million

Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from debt securities 31

95,458

106,174

139,424

Repayments of debt securities 31

–96,837

–123,748

–147,337

Proceeds from issuance of subordinated loans 31
Repayments of subordinated loans5 31
Purchase/sale of treasury shares

2,331

2,070

3,159

–2,343

–1,042

–6,092

7

10

Proceeds from NN Group divestments and related transactions

34
1,040

Dividends paid

–2,564

–2,521

–1,393

Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities

–3,948

–19,057

–11,165

2,553

–4,370

3,608

16,164

20,379

17,113

260

155

–342

18,977

16,164

20,379

Net cash flow
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 32

1 Result before tax includes results from continuing operations of EUR 7,268 million (2016: EUR 5,903 million; 2015: EUR 6,172 million) as well as results before tax
from discontinued operations of nil (2016: EUR 439 million; 2015: EUR 21 million).
2 In 2015, Disposals and redemptions – group companies included EUR –7,975 million and EUR 997 million related to cash and cash equivalents of NN Group and
proceeds from the sale of shares of NN Group resulting in loss of control at the end of May 2015 respectively.
3 Disposals and redemptions – associates and joint ventures includes (2016: EUR 1,016 million proceeds on the further sale of NN Group shares in January 2016
resulting in loss of significant influence over NN Group; 2015: EUR 995 million proceeds on the further sale of NN Group shares in September 2015).
4 In 2016, Disposals and redemptions – available-for-sale investments includes EUR 1,375 million proceeds on the divestment of the remaining shareholding in NN
Group in April 2016.
5 In 2016, Repayment of subordinated loans includes a cash outflow of EUR 128 million related to the third and final tranche of mandatory exchangeable
subordinated notes from the Anchor investors into NN Group ordinary shares in February 2016.

As at 31 December 2017, Cash and cash equivalents includes cash and balances with central banks of EUR 21,989 million (2016: EUR
18,144 million; 2015: EUR 21,458 million). The increase in cash and balances with central banks reflects ING’s liquidity management.
Reference is made to Note 32 ‘Cash and cash equivalents’.
Comparison of the Consolidated statements of cash flow between 2017, 2016, 2015 is impacted by NN Group. Included in the 2015
statement of cash flow is the NN Group cash flows for five months until deconsolidation at the end of May 2015.
References relate to the accompanying notes. These form an integral part of the Consolidated annual accounts.
Interest and dividend received and paid1
Interest received
Interest paid

Dividend received2
Dividend paid

2017

2016

2015

45,014

44,814

47,055

–31,032

–31,703

–34,238

13,982

13,111

12,817

206

208

137

–2,564

–2,521

–1,393

1 All interest and dividend paid and received from trading positions are included. 2016 and 2015 interest and dividend received have been restated to align to
current year presentation.
2 Includes dividends received as recognized within Investment Income, from equity securities included in the Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, and
from Investments in associates and joint ventures.

Interest received, interest paid and dividends received are included in operating activities in the Consolidated statement of cash flow.
Dividend paid is included in financing activities in the statement of cash flow.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

111

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts
amounts in millions of euros, unless stated otherwise

Notes to the accounting policies
Reporting entity

ING Groep N.V. is a company domiciled in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Commercial Register of Amsterdam, number 33231073. These
Consolidated annual accounts, as at and for the year ended 31 December 2017, comprise ING Groep N.V. (the Parent company) and its
subsidiaries, together referred to as ING Group. ING Group is a global financial institution with a strong European base, offering a wide
range of retail and wholesale banking services to customers in over 40 countries.

Authorisation of the Consolidated annual accounts

The ING Group Consolidated annual accounts, as at and for the year ended 31 December 2017, were authorised for issue in
accordance with a resolution of the Executive Board on 5 March 2018. The Executive Board may decide to amend the annual accounts
as long as these are not adopted by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The General Meeting of Shareholders may decide not to
adopt the annual accounts, but may not amend these.

Basis of preparation of the Consolidated annual accounts

The ING Group Consolidated annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU) and the relevant articles of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
IFRS as adopted by the EU are IFRS Standards and IFRS Interpretations as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board
(IASB) and the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) with some limited modifications such as the temporary ‘carve-out’ from IAS 39
‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ (herein, referred to as IFRS).
Under the EU carve-out, ING Group applies fair value hedge accounting to portfolio hedges of interest rate risk (macro hedging). For
further information, reference is made to Note 1 ‘Accounting policies’, d) Principles of valuation and determination of results and Note
38 ‘Derivatives and hedge accounting’.
The ING Group Consolidated annual accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.

1 Accounting policies

ING Group has consistently applied its accounting policies to all periods presented in these Consolidated annual accounts.

a) Changes in IFRS effective in 2017

ING Group has applied a number of amendments to standards for the first time during the year ended 31 December 2017. The
implementation of these changes had an insignificant impact on the consolidated financial position, net result, other comprehensive
income, cash flows, and related disclosures of ING Group. The amendment to IAS 7 now requires a disclosure of changes in liabilities
arising from financing activities, reference is made to Note 31 ‘Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities’. ING Group has not
early adopted any other standard, interpretation or amendment which has been issued, but is not yet effective.

b) Upcoming changes in IFRS after 2017
Changes to IFRS effective in 2018 and onwards expected to have no significant impact on ING Group

The following published amendments are not mandatory for 2017 and have not been early adopted by the group. ING Group is still
currently assessing the detailed impact of these amendments, however the implementation of these amendments is expected to
have no significant impact on ING Group’s Consolidated annual accounts.
The list of upcoming changes to IFRS, which are applicable for ING Group
Effective in 2018 (* - endorsed by the EU, the rest not yet endorsed by the EU):
• *Amendments to IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’: Classification and Measurement of Share-based payment transactions;
• Amendments to IAS 40 ‘Investment Property’: Transfers of Investment Property;
• *Annual improvements cycle 2014 – 2016: Amendments to IAS 28 ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’; and
• IFRIC 22 ‘Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration’.
Effective in 2019 (not yet endorsed by the EU):
• IFRIC 23 ‘Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments’;
• Amendments to IAS 28: ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’: Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures;
• Annual improvements cycle 2015 – 2017: Amendments to IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’, IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’, IAS 12
‘Income Taxes’, IAS 23 ‘Borrowing Costs’; and
• Amendments to IAS 19: ‘Employee Benefits’: Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement.
IASB has also issued IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’ effective in 2021, however it is not applicable for ING Group.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

112

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Major new IFRSs
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’

IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ was issued by the IASB in July 2014 and endorsed by the EU in November 2016. IFRS 9 replaces IAS 39
‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ and includes requirements for the classification and measurement of financial
assets and liabilities, impairment of financial assets, and hedge accounting. The new requirements are effective for annual periods
beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and will be applied by ING Group as of 1 January 2018. ING Group applies the classification,
measurement, and impairment requirements retrospectively by adjusting the opening balance sheet and opening equity at 1 January
2018, and has decided not to restate comparative periods and not to early apply the changed own credit risk requirements, as
permitted by IFRS 9. In October 2017, the IASB issued an amendment to IFRS 9 with regard to prepayment features with negative
compensation. This change allows financial assets with prepayment features that permit or require a party to a contract either to pay
or receive reasonable compensation for the early termination of the contract, to be measured at amortised cost or at fair value
through other comprehensive income. The amendment will be effective for annual period beginning or after 1 January 2019. If the
amendment is endorsed by the EU, ING will early adopt the amendment to IFRS 9 as of 1 January 2018 as permitted. Based on the
assessments carried out, ING Group does not expect that this change will have an impact.
ING decided to continue applying IAS 39 for hedge accounting including the application of the EU carve out as explicitly permitted by
IFRS 9. The revised hedge accounting disclosures as required by IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ as per 1 January 2018 will be
implemented across ING Group.
IFRS 9 program governance and status
The IFRS 9 program was initiated in 2015 and was set-up based on the three pillars of the IFRS 9 standard: Classification and
Measurement, Impairment, and Hedge Accounting. These central work streams consisted of experts from Finance, Risk, Bank Treasury,
Operations, and the Business. The IFRS 9 Technical Board consisted of the heads of various Finance and Risk functions supporting the
IFRS 9 Steering Committee by reviewing the interpretations of IFRS 9, the central guidance, and instructions as prepared by the central
work streams. The IFRS 9 Steering Committee was the key decision making body and consists of senior managers from Finance, Risk,
Bank Treasury and Wholesale Banking Lending Services. The Management Board Banking and the Audit Committee were periodically
updated about IFRS 9 and the key decisions.
In 2017 the program’s focus was on:
• Performing three ‘parallel runs’ to test readiness of systems, processes and a number of controls for transition to IFRS 9 as per 1
January 2018;
• Developing and validating of the new expected credit loss models;
• Developing and implementing processes for staging and using forward looking economic guidance in the Expected Credit Losses
models;
• Finalising technical interpretation of the IFRS 9 standard;
• Finalising the business model assessment and solely payments of principal and interest testing for Classification and
Measurement purposes;
• Implementing and testing system changes;
• Updating the policies, governance, and control frameworks that are impacted by IFRS 9 and starting to embed these changes into
everyday business and financial reporting cycles;
• Preparing the IFRS 9 transition disclosure plan.
During 2017, the IFRS 9 program was subject to reviews by supervisors and audits by ING’s internal audit department.
ING has almost completed the implementation of IFRS 9. The main procedures that are in the process of being finalised are the
transfer of program activities, further embedding internal controls in the processes, and the last model validations.
Classification and Measurement
IFRS 9 is built on a single classification and measurement approach for financial assets that reflects the business model in which they
are managed and their cash flow characteristics. Financial assets are therefore classified in their entirety rather than being subject to
complex bifurcation requirements.
Two criteria are used to determine how financial assets should be classified and measured at amortised cost (AC), fair value through
other comprehensive income (FVOCI) or fair value through profit or loss (FVPL):
1.
The business model assessment, performed to determine how a portfolio of financial instruments as a whole is managed in
order to classify the business model as Hold to Collect (HtC), Hold to Collect & Sell (HtC&S), or other; and
2.
The contractual cash flow characteristics test, performed to determine whether the financial instruments give rise to cash flows
that are Solely Payments of Principal and Interest (SPPI). Principal is defined as the fair value of the financial asset on initial
recognition. Interest is defined as consideration for the time value of money, for the credit risk associated with the principal
amount outstanding during a particular period and for other basic lending risk and costs as well as margin.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

113

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

A financial asset is measured at AC if it is held within a HtC business model, the contractual cash flows are solely SPPI and if it is not
designated as at FVPL. A financial asset is measured at FVOCI if it is held within a HtC&S business model, the contractual cash flows are
solely SPPI and if it is not designated at FVPL. Financial assets not classified as AC or FVOCI are measured at FVPL.
ING’s business models are based on the existing management structure of the bank, and refined based on an analysis of how
businesses are evaluated and reported, how their specific business risks are managed and on historic and expected future sales. The
SPPI testing was carried out on a sample basis conducted after the financial assets within the business models were stratified based on
an analysis of product characteristics. In performing the SPPI testing, ING considered the contractual terms of the instruments. This
included assessing whether the financial assets contained a contractual term that would change the amount or timing of contractual
cash flows such that they would no longer be SPPI compliant. In making the assessment, terms such as the following were considered:
• Prepayment terms. For example a prepayment of an outstanding principal amount plus a penalty capped to three or six months
of interest;
• Leverage features, which increase the variability of the contractual cash flows with the result that they do not have the economic
characteristics of interest. An example is a Libor contract with a multiplier of 1.3;
• Terms that limit the groups claim to cash flows from specified assets – e.g. non-recourse asset arrangements. This could be the
case if payments of principal and interest are met solely by the cash flows generated by the underlying asset, for example in real
estate, shipping and aviation financing;
• Features that modify consideration for the time value of money. These are contracts with for example an interest rate which is
reset every month to a one-year rate.
A number of key accounting policy choices were required for the Classification and Measurement of ING’s financial assets, such as the
level of permissible sales in a HtC business model, the FVOCI option for equity investments and accounting prepayments. The decision
making process for such policy choices followed the IFRS 9 programme governance, with technical matters researched, decisions
documented, and conclusions proposed by ING’s IFRS 9 Technical Board for approval by the IFRS 9 Steering Committee.
IFRS 9 largely retains the existing requirements in IAS 39 for the classification of financial liabilities. However, under IAS 39 all fair value
changes of financial liabilities designated at FVPL are recognised in the statement of profit or loss (SOPL), whereas under IFRS 9 the fair
value changes are presented as follows:
• The amount of change in the fair value that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of the liability is presented in the statement
of other comprehensive income (SOCI). Upon derecognition this Debt Valuation Adjustment (DVA) impact shall not be recycled
from other comprehensive income (OCI) to the SOPL; and
• The remaining amount of change in the fair value is presented in the SOPL.
The impact of this change is that an amount of approximately EUR 0.2 billion will be reclassified within equity from Retained earnings
to OCI.
Impact
As a result of the combined application of the business model analysis and SPPI test, the classification and measurement of the
following portfolios will change:
• The most significant change is the reclassification of a part of the available-for-sale (AFS) investment portfolio, which will be split
into a portfolio classified at AC and a portfolio at FVOCI. Approximately EUR 35.5 billion of debt securities previously classified at
AFS under IAS 39 will be measured at AC based on the IFRS 9 HtC business model. The reclassification from AFS to AC will result in a
reduction of the unrealised revaluation gains in equity at transition date of approximately EUR 0.6 billion.
• For a mortgage portfolio of EUR 3.4 billion, the measurement will change from AC to FVOCI as it meets the HtC&S business model
requirements. As the fair value of the portfolio is higher than the AC, this wil have a positive impact on equity of EUR 0.2 billion.
• Approximately EUR 1.3 billion of debt securities and loans previously booked at AC or AFS will be measured at FVPL as the cash
flows do not meet the SPPI test. This measurement change has a limited negative impact on equity at transition date.
Furthermore, there are a few portfolios for which only the classification on ING’s Consolidated statement of financial position will
change without impacting equity:
• ING has a portfolio of equity securities amounting to EUR 4.0 billion. For strategic equity instruments amounting to EUR 3.9 billion;
ING has decided to apply the option to irrevocably designate these at FVOCI, instead of the IFRS 9 default measurement of FVPL.
FVOCI equity investments will have no recycling of the revaluation reserve anymore to the SOPL upon disposal. For these
instruments only dividend income continues to be recognised in the SOPL; and
• Certain reverse repurchase portfolios amounting to EUR 54.8 billion will be classified as financial assets ‘Mandatorily at FVPL’
instead of Held for trading. ING will use the fair value option for the related repurchase financial liabilities amounting to EUR 37.2
billion.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

114

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Impairment

The implementation of IFRS 9 has a significant impact on ING’s impairment methodology. The Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model is a
forward-looking model. The ECL estimates are unbiased, probability-weighted, and include supportable information about past events,
current conditions, and forecasts of future economic conditions. ING’s ECL model reflects three macroeconomic scenarios via a
baseline, up and down scenario and include the time value of money. The model applies to on-balance sheet financial assets
accounted for at AC and FVOCI such as loans, debt securities and lease receivables, as well as off-balance sheet items such as
undrawn loan commitments, certain financial guarantees, and undrawn committed revolving credit facilities. Compared to the scope
under IAS 39, the main change is the inclusion of off-balance sheet exposures and HtC&S financial assets. ING aligned the definition of
credit impaired under IFRS 9 with the definition of default for prudential purposes.
ING’s approach leveraged the existing regulatory capital models that use the Advanced Internal Ratings Based (AIRB) models for
regulatory purposes. For other portfolios that use the Standardized Approach (SA) to calculate regulatory capital, ING developed new
ECL models.
Three stage approach
ING Group will apply the IFRS 9 three stage approach to measure expected credit losses:
• Stage 1: 12 month ECL – No significantly increased credit risk
Financial instruments that have not had a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition require, at initial recognition a
provision for ECL associated with the probability of default events occurring within the next 12 months (12 month ECL). For those
financial assets with a remaining maturity of less than 12 months, a Probability of Default (PD) is used that corresponds to the
remaining maturity.
• Stage 2: Lifetime ECL – Significantly increased credit risk
In the event of a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, a provision is required for the lifetime ECL representing
losses over the life of the financial instrument (lifetime ECL).
• Stage 3: Lifetime ECL – Defaulted
Financial instruments that move into Stage 3 once credit impaired and purchases of credit impaired assets will require a lifetime
provision.
Significant increase in credit risk
A financial asset moves from Stage 1 to Stage 2 when there is a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition. ING Group
established a framework which incorporates quantitative and qualitative information to identify this on an asset level applying a
relative assessment. Each financial asset will be assessed at the reporting date on the triggers for significant deterioration. ING Group
assesses significant increase in credit risk using:
• Delta in the lifetime default probability;
• Forbearance status;
• Watch list status. Loans on the watchlist are individually assessed for Stage 2 classification;
• Intensive care management;
• Internal rating;
• Arrears; and the
• More than 30 days past due backstop for Stage 1 to Stage 2 transfers.
The delta in lifetime probability of default is the main trigger for movement between Stage 1 and Stage 2. The trigger compares
lifetime probability of default at origination versus lifetime probability of default at reporting date, considering the remaining maturity.
Assets can move in both directions, meaning that they will move back to Stage 1 or Stage 2 when the Stage 2 or Stage 3 triggers are
not applicable anymore (taking into account the regulatory probation periods). The stage allocation is implemented in the central
credit risk systems.
Macroeconomic scenarios
ING has established a quarterly process whereby forward-looking macroeconomic scenarios and probability weightings are developed
for ECL calculation purposes. ING applies predominantly data from a leading service provider enriched with the internal ING view. To
reflect an unbiased and probability-weighted ECL amount, a baseline, an up-scenario and a down-scenario are determined. As a
baseline scenario, ING applies the market-neutral view combining consensus forecasts for economic variables such as unemployment
rates, GDP growth, house prices, commodity prices, and short-term interest rates. Applying market consensus in the baseline scenario
ensures unbiased estimates of the expected credit losses.
The alternative scenarios are based on observed forecast errors in the past, adjusted for the risks affecting the economy today, and
the forecast horizon. The probabilities assigned are based on the likelihoods of observing the three scenarios and are derived from
confidence intervals on a probability distribution. The scenarios are adjusted on a quarterly basis.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

115

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

As the inclusion of forward-looking macroeconomic scenarios requires judgement, a Macroeconomic scenarios team and a
Macroeconomic scenarios expert panel were established. The Macroeconomic scenarios team is responsible for the macroeconomic
scenarios used for IFRS 9 ECL purposes with a challenge by the Macroeconomic scenarios expert panel. This ensures that the
macroeconomic scenarios are sufficiently challenged and that key economic risks, including immediate short term risks, are taken into
consideration when developing the macroeconomic scenarios used in the calculation of ECL. The Macroeconomic scenarios expert
panel is a diverse team composed of senior management representatives from the Business, Risk, Finance, and an external party.
Measurement
The calculation of IFRS 9 ECL leverages on ING Group’s expected loss models (PD, LGD, EAD) currently used for regulatory capital,
economic capital, and collective provisions in the current IAS 39 framework. These models are adjusted for 1) removal of embedded
prudential conservatism (such as floors), 2) provide forward-looking point in time estimates based on macroeconomic predictions and
3) a 12 months or lifetime view of credit risk where needed. Lifetime features are default behaviour over a longer horizon, full
behaviour after the default moment, repayment schedules and early settlements. For most financial instruments, the expected life is
limited to the remaining maturity. For overdrafts and certain revolving credit facilities, such as credit cards, open ended assumptions
are taken as these do not have a fixed term or repayment schedule.
To measure ECL, ING Group applies a PD x EAD x LGD approach incorporating the time value of money. For Stage 1 assets a forwardlooking approach on a 12 month horizon will be applied. For Stage 2 assets a lifetime view on the credit is applied. The Lifetime
Expected Loss (LEL) is the discounted sum of the portions of lifetime losses related to default events within each time window of 12
months till maturity. For Stage 3 assets the PD equals 100% and the Loss Given Default (LGD) and Exposure At Default (EAD) represent
a lifetime view of the losses based on characteristics of defaulted facilities.
Impact
As a result of the new IFRS 9 impairment requirements, ING expects that the loan loss provisions (LLP) to increase by approximately
EUR 0.6 billion (pre-tax). The split of the ECL to different stages of our portfolio is further detailed in the table below. The increase in the
level of impairments due to the IFRS 9 transition is mainly the result of IFRS 9 Stage 2 loans for which lifetime expected credit losses
need to be calculated.
Estimated IFRS 9 transition impact impairments as at 1 January 20181
In billions of euros

Incurred but Not Reported (IBNR)

IAS 39 LLP
0.7

IFRS 9 impairment stages

Estimated IFRS 9
ECL increase

Estimated
IFRS 9 ECL

Stage 1- 12 month ECL

0.1

0.4

Stage 2 – Lifetime ECL

0.5

0.9

Individual provisions (ISFA, INSFA)

3.9

Stage 3 – Lifetime ECL

0.02

3.9

Total

4.6

Total

0.6

5.2

1 Includes provisions for contingent liabilities
2 The change for Stage 3 financial assets is rounded.

IFRS 9 Impact on capital and other regulatory requirements

IFRS 9 will impact ING Group’s reported capital as a result of the transition adjustments recorded in shareholders’ equity on transition
date. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) pointed out that the treatment of provisions under both the SA and the AIRB
frameworks remains, but allows jurisdictions the option to choose whether to apply a transitional arrangement for the impact of
impairment under IFRS 9. As a result, the EU introduced transitional arrangements for mitigating the impact of the introduction of IFRS
9 impairment on own funds in the Capital Requirements Regulations (CRR). ING has decided not to apply the IFRS 9 impairment
transitional arrangements. The increase in provisions will have limited impact on ING’s CET1 ratio as for the AIRB portfolios it will be
offset by the existing regulatory provision shortfall per 31 December 2017.
The estimated impact of the adoption of IFRS 9 on shareholders’ equity is approximately EUR -0.9 billion and -18 basis points on CET1
capital ratio at implementation date 1 January 2018, consisting of:

ING Group Annual Report 2017

116

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Estimated impact of adopting IFRS 9 on shareholders’ equity as at 1 January 2018
Estimated impact on
shareholders’ equity

In billions of euros
Loan loss provisions1

–0.4

Investment portfolio2

–0.6
0.2

Mortgages held in HtC&S portfolio3
Other4

–0.1

Total impact

–0.9

1 The EUR -0.4 billion is the post-tax impact on equity of the estimated IFRS 9 ECL increase amounting to EUR 0.6 billion. The capital impact is for the AIRB portfolios
offset by the release of expected loss elements currently included in the calculation of regulatory capital per 31 December 2017.
2 Main impact of approximately EUR -0.6 billion from the reclassification of a part of the investment portfolio from the AFS (FVOCI) debt securities under IAS 39 to the
HtC portfolio (AC) under IFRS 9.
3 A portfolio of mortgages will be measured at FVOCI under IFRS 9 instead of AC under IAS 39 resulting in an impact of approximate EUR 0.2 billion impact on CET1
capital.
4 This item mainly relates to the estimated impact of reporting loans and debt instruments at fair value through the SOPL because the cash flows of these assets do
not represent SPPI.

The impact on other regulatory ratios is not expected to be material.

IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’

IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and has been
endorsed by the EU. IFRS 15 introduces a five-step approach for recognising revenue as and when the agreed performance obligations
are satisfied. Agreed performance obligations are individual promises made to the customer that deliver benefit from the customer’s
perspective. Revenue should either be recognised at a point-in-time or over-time depending on the service being delivered to the
customer.
ING assessed the impact of IFRS 15 and expects that it will have no significant effect on ING Group’s Net result and/or Other
comprehensive income and Shareholders’ equity.

IFRS 16 ‘Leases’

IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and has been endorsed by the EU. IFRS 16 is the
new accounting standard for leases and will replace IAS 17 ‘Leases’ and IFRIC 4 ‘Determining whether an Arrangement contains a
Lease’. The new standard removes the distinction between operating or finance leases for lessee accounting, resulting in all leases
being treated as finance leases. All leases will be recognised on the statement of financial position with the optional exceptions for
short-term leases with a lease term of less than 12 months and leases of low-value assets (for example mobile phones or laptops). A
lessee is required to recognise a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying leased asset and a lease liability
representing its obligation to make lease payments. The main reason for this change is that this approach will result in a more
comparable representation of a lessee’s assets and liabilities in relation to other companies and, together with enhanced disclosures,
will provide greater transparency of a lessee’s financial leverage and capital employed. The standard permits a lessee to choose either
a full retrospective or a modified retrospective transition approach. Furthermore the standard provides some practical options and
exemptions to ease the costs of transition. Lessor accounting remains substantially unchanged. ING will adopt the standard at its
effective date planning to use the modified retrospective approach, however ING is still currently assessing the detailed impact of this
standard.

c) Significant judgements and critical accounting estimates and assumptions

The preparation of the consolidated annual accounts requires management to make judgements in the process of applying its
accounting policies and to use estimates and assumptions. The estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of the assets
and liabilities and the amounts of the contingent liabilities at the balance sheet date, as well as reported income and expenses for the
year. The actual outcome may differ from these estimates. The process of setting assumptions is subject to internal control
procedures and approvals.
ING Group has identified areas that require management to make significant judgements and use critical accounting estimates and
assumptions based on the information and financial data that may change in future periods. These areas are:
• The determination of the fair values of financial assets and liabilities;
• Loan loss provisions; and
• Provisions.
For further discussion of the significant judgements and critical accounting estimates and assumptions in these areas, reference is
made to the relevant parts in section d) ‘Principles of valuation and determination of results’ and the applicable notes to the
Consolidated annual accounts.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

117

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

d) Principles of valuation and determination of results
Consolidation

ING Group (the Group) comprises ING Groep N.V. (the Parent Company), ING Bank N.V. and all other subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are
entities controlled by ING Groep N.V. Control exists if ING Groep N.V. is exposed or has rights to variable returns and has the ability to
affect those returns through the power over the investee. Control is usually achieved through situations including, but not limited to:
• Ownership, directly or indirectly, of more than half of the voting power;
• Ability to appoint or remove the majority of the board of directors;
• Power to govern operating and financial policies under statute or agreement; and
• Power over more than half of the voting rights through an agreement with other investors.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered in assessing whether ING
Group controls another entity.
For interests in investment vehicles, the existence of control is determined taking into account both ING Group’s financial interests for
own risk and its role as investment manager.
A list of principal subsidiaries is included in Note 47 ‘Principal subsidiaries’.
A list containing the information referred to in Section 379 (1), Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code has been filed with the office of the
Commercial Register of Amsterdam, in accordance with Section 379 (5), Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
The results of the operations and the net assets of subsidiaries are included in the statement of profit or loss and the statement of
financial position from the date control is obtained until the date control is lost. On disposal, the difference between the sales
proceeds, net of directly attributable transaction costs, and the net assets is included in net result.
A subsidiary which ING Group has agreed to sell but is still legally owned by ING Group may still be controlled by ING Group at the
balance sheet date and therefore, still be included in the consolidation. Such a subsidiary may be presented as a held for sale disposal
group if certain conditions are met.
All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised surpluses and deficits on transactions between group companies are
eliminated. Where necessary, the accounting policies used by subsidiaries are changed to ensure consistency with group policies. In
general, the reporting dates of subsidiaries are the same as the reporting date of ING Groep N.V.
ING Groep N.V. and its Dutch group companies are subject to legal restrictions regarding the amount of dividends they can pay to their
shareholders. The Dutch Civil Code contains the restriction that dividends can only be paid up to an amount equal to the excess of the
company’s own funds over the sum of the paid-up capital and reserves required by law. Additionally, certain Group companies are
subject to restrictions on the amount of funds they may transfer in the form of dividends, or otherwise, to the parent company.
Furthermore, in addition to the restrictions in respect of minimum capital requirements that are imposed by industry regulators in the
countries in which the subsidiaries operate, other limitations exist in certain countries.

Segment reporting

A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group, engaged in providing products or services, subject to risks and returns that
are different from those of other segments monitored by management. A geographical area is a distinguishable component of the
Group engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that is subject to risks and returns that are
different from those of segments operating in other economic environments. The geographical analyses are based on the location of
the office from which the transactions are originated.

Foreign currency translation

Functional and presentation currency

Items included in the annual accounts of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic
environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency). The Consolidated annual accounts are presented in euros, which is
ING Group’s presentation currency.

Transactions and balances

Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the
transactions. Exchange rate differences resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end
exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the statement of profit or loss,
except when deferred in equity as part of qualifying cash flow hedges or qualifying net investment hedges.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

118

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the
date of the transaction.
Exchange rate differences on non-monetary items, measured at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value
gain or loss. Non-monetary items are retranslated at the date fair value is determined. Exchange rate differences on non-monetary
items measured at fair value through the revaluation reserve are included in the revaluation reserve in equity.
Exchange rate differences in the statement of profit or loss are generally included in ‘Valuation results and net trading income’.
Reference is made to Note 21 ‘Valuation results and net trading income’, which discloses the amounts included in the statement of
profit or loss. Exchange rate differences relating to the disposal of available-for-sale debt and equity securities are considered to be an
inherent part of the capital gains and losses recognised in Investment income. As mentioned below, in Group companies relating to
the disposals of group companies, any exchange rate difference deferred in equity is recognised in the statement of profit or loss in
‘Result on disposal of group companies’. Reference is also made to Note 18 ‘Equity’, which discloses the amounts included in the
statement of profit or loss.

Group companies

The results and financial positions of all group companies that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are
translated into the presentation currency as follows:
• Assets and liabilities included in each statement of financial position are translated at the closing rate at the date of that
statement of financial position;
• Income and expenses included in each statement of profit or loss are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is
not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income
and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions); and
• All resulting exchange rate differences are recognised in a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange rate differences arising from the translation of a monetary item that forms part of the net investment in a
foreign operation, and of borrowings and other instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders’
equity. When a foreign operation is sold, the corresponding exchange rate differences are recognised in the statement of profit or loss
as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the
foreign operation and translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.

Recognition and derecognition of financial instruments
Recognition of financial assets

All purchases and sales of financial assets classified at fair value through profit or loss, held-to-maturity and available-for-sale that
require delivery within the time frame established by regulation or market convention (‘regular way’ purchases and sales) are
recognised at trade date, which is the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. Loans and receivables are
recognised at settlement date, which is the date on which the Group receives or delivers the asset.

Derecognition of financial assets

Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or where the Group has
transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and
rewards of ownership of a financial asset, it derecognises the financial asset if it no longer has control over the asset.

Realised gains and losses on financial assets

For financial assets at amortised cost, realised gains and losses on investments are determined as the difference between the sale
proceeds and amortised cost. For available-for-sale financial assets, the accumulated fair value adjustments in other comprehensive
income are included in the statement of profit or loss when the asset is disposed. For equity securities, the cost is determined using a
weighted average per portfolio. For debt securities, the cost is determined by specific identification.

Recognition of financial liabilities

Financial liabilities are recognised on the date that the entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are removed from the balance sheet when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or
expired. The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability that has been extinguished and the consideration paid is
recognised in profit or loss.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

119

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Classification of financial instruments

Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss

Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include equity securities, debt securities, derivatives, loans and receivables, and
other, and comprise the following sub-categories: trading assets, non-trading derivatives, and financial assets designated at fair value
through profit or loss by management. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss comprise the following sub-categories:
trading liabilities, non-trading derivatives, and other financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss by management.
Trading liabilities include equity securities, debt securities, funds on deposit, and derivatives.
A financial asset or financial liability is classified at fair value through profit or loss if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in
the short term or if designated by management as such. Management will designate a financial asset or a financial liability as such
only if this eliminates a measurement inconsistency or if the related assets and liabilities are managed on a fair value basis.
Transaction costs on initial recognition are expensed as incurred. Interest income and expense from financial instruments is classified
at fair value through profit or loss is recognised in Interest income using the effective interest method (where applicable) and the
remaining changes in fair value of such instruments are recognised in Valuation results and net trading income in the statement of
profit or loss.
Dividend income from equity instruments classified at fair value through profit or loss is generally recognised in Valuation results and
net trading income in the statement of profit or loss when the dividend has been declared. For derivatives reference is made to the
‘Derivatives and hedge accounting’ section.

Investments

Investments (including loans quoted in active markets) are classified either as held-to-maturity or available-for-sale. Investment debt
securities and loans quoted in active markets with fixed maturity where management has both the intent and the ability to hold to
maturity are classified as held-to-maturity. Investment securities and quoted loans intended to be held for an indefinite period of
time, which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices, are classified
as available-for-sale financial assets.
Available-for-sale financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets include available-for-sale debt securities and available-for-sale equity securities. Available-for-sale
financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs. For available-for-sale debt securities, the difference
between cost and redemption value is amortised. Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method. Available-for-sale
financial assets are subsequently measured at fair value. Interest income from debt securities classified as available-for-sale is
recognised in Interest income in the statement of profit or loss. Dividend income from equity instruments classified as available-forsale is recognised in Investment income in the statement of profit or loss when the dividend has been declared. Unrealised gains and
losses arising from changes in the fair value are recognised in equity and are recycled to the statement of profit or loss as Investment
income when the asset is disposed. Investments in prepayment sensitive securities such as Interest-Only and Principal-Only strips are
generally classified as available-for-sale.
Held-to-maturity investments
Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity for which the Group has the positive intent
and ability to hold to maturity and which are designated by management as held-to-maturity assets are initially recognised at fair
value plus transaction costs. Subsequently, they are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment
losses. Interest income from debt securities classified as held-to-maturity is recognised in Interest income in the statement of profit or
loss using the effective interest method. Held-to-maturity investments include only debt securities.

Loans and receivables

Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active
market. They are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs. Subsequently, they are carried at amortised cost using the
effective interest method less any impairment losses. Loans and receivables include Cash and balances with central banks, Loans and
advances to banks, Loans and advances to customers, and some categories of Other assets and are reflected in these line items in the
statement of financial position. Interest income from loans and receivables is recognised in Interest income in the statement of profit
or loss using the effective interest method.

Financial liabilities at amortised cost

Financial liabilities at amortised cost include the following sub-categories: preference shares classified as debt, debt securities in issue,
subordinated loans, and deposits from banks and customer deposits.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

120

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Financial liabilities at amortised cost are recognised initially at their issue proceeds (fair value of consideration received) net of
transaction costs incurred. Liabilities in this category are subsequently stated at amortised cost; any difference between proceeds, net
of transaction costs, and the redemption value is recognised in the statement of profit or loss over the period of the liability using the
effective interest method.
If the Group purchases its own debt, it is removed from the statement of financial position, and the difference between the carrying
amount of the liability and the consideration paid is included in the statement of profit or loss.

Financial guarantee contracts

Financial guarantee contracts are contracts that require the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it
incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payments when due, in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument. Such financial
guarantees are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at the higher of the discounted best estimate of the
obligation under the guarantee and the amount initially recognised less cumulative amortisation to reflect revenue recognition
principles.

Fair values of financial assets and liabilities

All the financial assets and liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, whereas financial assets and liabilities classified as held-fortrading or designated at fair value through profit or loss and financial assets classified as available-for-sale are subsequently
measured at fair value in the annual accounts.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
market participants at the measurement date. It uses the assumptions that market participants would use and takes into account the
characteristics of the asset or liability that market participants would take into account when pricing the asset or liability. Fair values of
financial assets and liabilities are based on unadjusted quoted market prices where available. Such quoted market prices are primarily
obtained from exchange prices for listed financial instruments. Where an exchange price is not available, quoted prices in an active
market may be obtained from independent market vendors, brokers, or market makers. In general, positions are valued at the bid
price for a long position and at the offer price for a short position or are valued at the price within the bid-offer spread that is most
representative of fair value in the circumstances. In some cases where positions are marked at mid-market prices, a fair value
adjustment is calculated.
For certain financial assets and liabilities quoted market prices are not available. For these financial assets and liabilities, fair value is
determined using valuation techniques. These valuation techniques range from discounting of cash flows to various valuation models,
where relevant pricing factors including the market price of underlying reference instruments, market parameters (volatilities,
correlations and credit ratings), and customer behaviour are taken into account. ING maximises the use of market observable inputs
and minimises the use of unobservable inputs in determining the fair value. It can be subjective dependent on the significance of the
unobservable input to the overall valuation. All valuation techniques used are subject to internal review and approval. Most data used
in these valuation techniques are validated on a daily basis when possible.
When a group of financial assets and financial liabilities are managed on the basis of their net risk exposures, it measures the fair
value of a group of financial assets and liabilities on net portfolio level.
To include credit risk in the fair value, ING applies both Credit and Debit Valuation Adjustments (CVA, DVA). Own issued debt and
structured notes that are measured at fair value are adjusted for credit risk by means of a DVA. Additionally, derivatives valued at fair
value are adjusted for credit risk by a CVA. The CVA is of a bilateral nature as both the credit risk on the counterparty as well as the
credit risk on ING are included in the adjustment. All input data that is used in the determination of the CVA is based on market implied
data. Additionally, wrong-way risk (when exposure to a counterparty is increasing and the credit quality of that counterparty
deteriorates) and right-way risk (when exposure to a counterparty is increasing and the credit quality of that counterparty improves)
are taken into account in the measurement of the valuation adjustment. ING applies an additional ‘Funding Valuation Adjustment’
(FVA) to the uncollateralised derivatives based on the market price of funding liquidity.
Significant judgements and critical accounting estimates and assumptions:
Even if market prices are available, when markets are less liquid there may be a range of prices for the same security from different
price sources. Selecting the most appropriate price requires judgement and could result in different estimates of fair value.
Valuation techniques are subjective in nature and significant judgement is involved in establishing fair values for certain financial
assets and liabilities. Valuation techniques involve various assumptions regarding pricing factors. The use of different valuation
techniques and assumptions could produce significantly different estimates of fair value.
Price testing is performed to assess whether the process of valuation has led to an appropriate fair value of the position and to an
appropriate reflection of these valuations in the statement of profit or loss. Price testing is performed to minimise the potential risks
for economic losses due to incorrect or misused models.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

121

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Reference is made to Note 37 ‘Fair value of assets and liabilities’ and the section ‘Risk management – Market risk’, paragraph ‘Fair
values of financial assets and liabilities’ for the basis of the determination of the fair value of financial instruments and related
sensitivities.

Credit risk management classification and maximum credit risk exposure

Credit risk management disclosures are provided in the section ‘Risk management – Credit risk’ paragraph ‘Credit risk categories’.
The maximum credit risk exposure for items in the statement of financial position is generally the carrying value for the relevant
financial assets. For the off-balance sheet items the maximum credit exposure is the maximum amount that could be required to be
paid. Reference is made to Note 44 ‘Contingent liabilities and commitments’ for these off-balance sheet items. Collateral received is
not taken into account when determining the maximum credit risk exposure.
The manner in which ING Group manages credit risk and determines credit risk exposures for that purpose is explained in the section
‘Risk management – Credit risk’ paragraph ‘Credit Risk Appetite and Concentration Risk Framework’.

Derivatives and hedge accounting

Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently
measured at fair value. Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, including recent market transactions
and valuation techniques (such as discounted cash flow models and option pricing models), as appropriate. All derivatives are carried
as assets when their fair value is positive and as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
Certain derivatives embedded in other contracts are measured as separate derivatives when their economic characteristics and risks
are not closely related to those of the host contract, the host contract is not carried at fair value through profit or loss, and if a
separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the definition of a derivative. These embedded
derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the statement of profit or loss. An assessment is carried
out when the Group first becomes party to the contract. A reassessment is carried out only when there is a change in the terms of the
contract that significantly modifies the expected cash flows.
The method of recognising the resulting fair value gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging
instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of the fair value of
recognised assets or liabilities or firm commitments (fair value hedge), hedges of highly probable future cash flows attributable to a
recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction (cash flow hedge), or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation. Hedge
accounting is used for derivatives designated in this way provided certain criteria are met.
At the inception of the transaction ING Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, its risk
management objective, together with the methods selected to assess hedge effectiveness. The Group also documents its assessment,
both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective
in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
ING Group applies fair value hedge accounting to portfolio hedges of interest rate risk (macro hedging) under the EU carve-out. The EU
carve-out macro hedging enables a group of derivatives (or proportions) to be viewed in combination and jointly designated as the
hedging instrument and removes some of the limitations in fair value hedge accounting relating to hedging core deposits and underhedging strategies. Under the EU carve-out, hedge accounting may be applied to core deposits and ineffectiveness only arises when
the revised estimate of the amount of cash flows in scheduled time buckets falls below the designated amount of that bucket.
ING Group applies fair value hedge accounting for portfolio hedges of interest rate risk (macro hedging) under the EU carve-out to its
retail operations. The net exposures of retail funding (savings and current accounts) and retail lending (mortgages) are hedged. The
hedging activities are designated under a portfolio fair value hedge on the mortgages. Changes in the fair value of the derivatives are
recognised in the statement of profit or loss, together with the fair value adjustment on the mortgages (hedged items) insofar as
attributable to interest rate risk (the hedged risk).

Fair value hedges

Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recognised in the statement of profit
or loss, together with fair value adjustments to the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. If the hedge relationship no longer
meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the cumulative adjustment of the hedged item is, in the case of interest bearing instruments,
amortised through the statement of profit or loss over the remaining term of the original hedge or recognised directly when the
hedged item is derecognised. For non-interest bearing instruments, the cumulative adjustment of the hedged item is recognised in
the statement of profit or loss only when the hedged item is derecognised.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

122

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Cash flow hedges

The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in
equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the statement of profit or loss. Amounts
accumulated in equity are recycled to the statement of profit or loss in the periods in which the hedged item affects net result. When
a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or
loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the
statement of profit or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported
in equity is transferred immediately to the statement of profit or loss.

Net investment hedges

Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the
hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity and the gain or loss relating to the ineffective
portion is recognised immediately in the statement of profit or loss. Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the
statement of profit or loss when the foreign operation is disposed.

Non-trading derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting

Derivative instruments that are used by the Group as part of its risk management strategies, but which do not qualify for hedge
accounting under ING Group’s accounting policies, are presented as non-trading derivatives. Non-trading derivatives are measured at
fair value with changes in the fair value taken to the statement of profit or loss.

Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities

Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset, and the net amount reported, in the statement of financial position when the Group
has a current legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and intends to either settle on a net basis or to realise the
asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Offsetting is applied to certain interest rate swaps for which the services of a central
clearing house are used. Offsetting is also applied to certain clients subject to cash pooling arrangements where the intention to settle
net is demonstrated via a physical transfer of cash balances into a single netting account on a period end basis.

Repurchase transactions and reverse repurchase transactions

Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements (repos) are retained in the consolidated annual accounts. The counterparty liability is
included in Deposits from banks, Customer deposits, or Trading, as appropriate.
Securities purchased under agreements to resell (reverse repos) are not recognised in the statement of financial position. The
consideration paid to purchase securities is recognised as Loans and advances to customers, Loans and advances to banks, or
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss - Trading assets, as appropriate. The difference between the sale and repurchase
price is treated as interest and amortised over the life of the agreement using the effective interest method.

Impairments of financial assets at amortised cost (loan loss provisions)

ING Group assesses periodically and at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of
financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred if, and only
if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset,
but before the balance sheet date, (a loss event) and that loss event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of
the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated. The following circumstances, among others, are
considered objective evidence that a financial asset or group of assets is impaired:
• The borrower has sought or has been placed in bankruptcy or similar protection and this leads to the avoidance of or delays in
repayment of the financial asset;
• The borrower has failed in the repayment of principal, interest, or fees and the payment failure has remained unsolved for a
certain period;
• The borrower has demonstrated significant financial difficulty, to the extent that it will have a negative impact on the expected
future cash flows of the financial asset;
• The credit obligation has been restructured for non-commercial reasons. ING Group has granted concessions, for economic or
legal reasons relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty, the effect of which is a reduction in the expected future cash flows of
the financial asset; and
• Historical experience, updated for current events where necessary, provides evidence that a proportion of a group of assets is
impaired although the related events that represent impairment triggers are not yet captured by the Group’s credit risk systems.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

123

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

In certain circumstances ING grants borrowers postponement and/or reduction of loan principal and/or interest payments for a
temporary period of time to maximise collection opportunities, and if possible, avoid default, foreclosure, or repossession. When such
postponement and/or reduction of loan principal and/or interest payments is executed based on credit concerns it is also referred to
as forbearance. In such cases, the net present value of the postponement and/or reduction of loan and/or interest payments is taken
into account in the determination of the appropriate level of impairment loss as described below. If the forbearance results in a
substantial modification of the terms of the loan, the original loan is derecognised and a new loan is recognised at its fair value at the
modification date. The Group determines whether there has been a substantial modification using both quantitative and qualitative
factors.
Losses expected as a result of future events, no matter how likely, are not recognised.
The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment (a loss event/trigger) exists individually for financial assets that are
individually significant, and then individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant. If the Group
determines that no objective evidence of impairment (a loss event/trigger) exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether
significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively assesses
them for impairment. Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be
recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an asset carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss
is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding
future credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. The carrying
amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account (loan loss provision) and the amount of the loss is recognised
in the statement of profit or loss under Addition to loan loss provision. If the asset has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for
measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate determined under the contract.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event
occurring after the impairment was recognised (such as an improvement in the debtor’s credit rating), the previously recognised
impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the provision. The amount of the reversal is recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
When a loan is uncollectable, it is written off against the related loan loss provision. Such loans are written off after all the necessary
procedures have been completed and the amount of the loss has been determined. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously
written off are recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
Impairments on other debt instruments (Loans and held-to-maturity investments) are part of the loan loss provision as described
above.
Significant judgements and critical accounting estimates and assumptions:
Considerable judgement is exercised in determining the extent of the loan loss provision (impairment) for financial assets assessed for
impairment both individually and collectively. Judgement is exercised in management’s evaluation of whether there is objective
evidence that an impairment loss on an asset has been incurred, the risk in the portfolio, current economic conditions, loss experience
in recent years and credit, industry, geographical, and concentration trends. Changes in such judgements and analyses may lead to
changes in the loan loss provisions over time.
ING Group estimates individual impairment provisions for individually significant financial assets that have objective evidence of
impairment. The key judgement exercised in this area is determination of when an impairment event has occurred. Key assumptions
in determining the amount of the individual provision are the expected future cash flows from the financial asset in question.
For the purposes of a collective evaluation of impairment, financial assets are grouped on the basis of similar credit risk characteristics.
Those characteristics are relevant to the estimation of future cash flows for groups of such assets by being indicative of the debtors’
ability to pay all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the assets being evaluated. The collective evaluation of
impairment includes the application of a loss emergence period to default probabilities (also referred to as loss identification period).
The loss emergence period is a concept which recognises that there is a period of time between the emergence of impairment triggers
and the point in time at which those events are captured by the Group’s credit risk systems. Accordingly, the application of the loss
emergence period ensures that impairments that are incurred but not yet identified are adequately reflected in the Group’s loan loss
provision. Although the loss emergence periods are inherently uncertain, the Group applies estimates to sub-portfolios (e.g. large
corporations, small and medium size enterprises, and retail portfolios) that reflect factors such as the frequency with which customers
in the sub-portfolio disclose credit risk sensitive information and the frequency with which they are subject to review by the Group’s
account managers. Generally, the frequency increases in relation to the size of the borrower. Loss emergence periods are based on
historical experience and are validated, and revised where necessary, through regular back-testing to ensure that they reflect recent
experience and current events.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

124

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Expected future cash flows in a portfolio of financial assets that are collectively evaluated for impairment, are estimated on the basis
of the contractual cash flows of the assets in the portfolio and historical loss experience for assets with credit risk characteristics
similar to those in the portfolio. Historical loss experience is adjusted on the basis of current observable data to reflect the effects of
current conditions that did not affect the period on which the historical loss experience is based and to remove the effects of
conditions in the historical period that do not exist currently. Current observable data may include changes in unemployment rates,
property prices, and commodity prices. The methodology and assumptions used for estimating future cash flows are reviewed
regularly to reduce any differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience.
Reference is made to Note 6 ‘Loans and advances to customers’ and the section ‘Risk management – Credit risk’ for further details.

Impairment of available for sale financial assets

At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets
is impaired. In the specific case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value
of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the assets are impaired. Significant and prolonged are interpreted
on a case-by-case basis for specific equity securities; generally 25% and six months are used as triggers. If any objective evidence
exists for available-for-sale debt and equity investments, the cumulative loss – measured as the difference between the acquisition
cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in net result – is removed from
equity and recognised in the statement of profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised on equity instruments can never be reversed. If,
in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively
related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the statement of profit or loss, the impairment loss is
reversed through the statement of profit or loss.

Investments in associates and joint ventures

Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control. Significant influence is the ability to
participate in the financial and operating policies of the investee. It generally results from a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of
the voting rights or through situations including, but not limited to one or more of the following:
• Representation on the board of directors;
• Participation in the policymaking process; and
• Interchange of managerial personnel.
Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control over an
arrangement or entity, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties
sharing control. Joint control means that no party to the agreement is able to act unilaterally to control the activity of the entity. The
parties to the agreement must act together to control the entity and therefore exercise the joint control.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are initially recognised at cost and subsequently accounted for using the equity method
of accounting.
The Group’s investment in associates and joint ventures (net of any accumulated impairment loss) includes goodwill identified on
acquisition. The Group’s share of its associates and joint ventures post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the statement of
profit or loss, and its share of post-acquisition changes in reserves is recognised in equity. The cumulative post-acquisition changes are
adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment. When the Group’s share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or
exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, including any long-term interests in the associate like uncollateralised loans that
are neither planned nor likely to be settled in the foreseeable future, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred
obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s
interest in the associates and joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless they provide evidence of an impairment of
the asset transferred. Accounting policies of associates and joint ventures have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency
with the policies adopted by the Group. The reporting dates of all significant associates and joint ventures are consistent with the
reporting date of the Group.

Property and equipment
Property in own use

Land and buildings held for own use are stated at fair value at the balance sheet date. Increases in the carrying amount arising on
revaluation of land and buildings held for own use are credited to the revaluation reserve in shareholders’ equity. Decreases in the
carrying amount that offset previous increases of the same asset are charged against the revaluation reserve directly in equity; all
other decreases are charged to the statement of profit or loss. Increases that reverse a revaluation decrease on the same asset
previously recognised in net result are recognised in the statement of profit or loss. Depreciation is recognised based on the fair value
and the estimated useful life (in general 20–50 years). Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis. On disposal, the related
revaluation reserve is transferred to retained earnings.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

125

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

The fair values of land and buildings are based on regular appraisals done by independent qualified valuers or by internal valuers,
similar to appraisals of real estate investments. Subsequent expenditure is included in the asset’s carrying amount when it is probable
that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.

Equipment

Equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. The cost of the assets is depreciated on a
straight line basis over their estimated useful lives, which are generally as follows: for data processing equipment two to five years,
and four to ten years for fixtures and fittings. Expenditure incurred on maintenance and repairs is recognised in the statement of profit
or loss as incurred. Expenditure incurred on major improvements is capitalised and depreciated.

Disposals

The difference between the proceeds on disposal and net carrying value is recognised in the statement of profit or loss under Other
income.

Borrowing costs

Borrowing costs incurred for the construction of any qualifying asset are capitalised during the period of time that is required to
complete and prepare the asset for its intended use. Borrowing costs are determined at the weighted average cost of capital of the
project.

Leases

The determination of whether an arrangement is or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date.

ING Group as the lessee

The leases entered into by ING Group are primarily operating leases. The total payments made under operating leases are recognised
in the statement of profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
When an operating lease is terminated before the lease period has expired, any penalty payment to be made to the lessor is
recognised as an expense in the period in which termination takes place.

ING Group as the lessor

When assets are held subject to a finance lease, the present value of the lease payments is recognised as a receivable under Loans
and advances to customers or Loans and advances to banks. The difference between the gross receivable and the present value of the
receivable is unearned lease finance income. Lease income is recognised over the term of the lease using the net investment method
(before tax), which reflects a constant periodic rate of return. When assets are held subject to an operating lease, the assets are
included under Assets under operating leases.

Assets under operating leases

Assets leased out under operating leases in which ING Group is the lessor are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any
impairment losses. The cost of the assets is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

Acquisitions, goodwill and other intangible assets
Acquisitions and goodwill

ING Group’s acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting. The consideration for each acquisition is
measured at the aggregate of the fair values (at the date of exchange) of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity
instruments issued in exchange for control of the acquiree. Goodwill, being the difference between the cost of the acquisition
(including assumed debt) and the Group’s interest in the fair value of the acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities as at the
date of acquisition, is capitalised as an intangible asset. Goodwill is only capitalised on acquisitions. The results of the operations of the
acquired companies are included in the statement of profit or loss from the date control is obtained.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration
arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value. Contingent consideration arrangements
classified as an asset or a liability, are subsequently measured at fair value and the changes in fair value will be recognised in the
statement of profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration classified as equity, are not recognised.
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, ING Group’s previously held interests in the assets and liabilities of the acquired
entity are remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date (i.e. the date ING Group obtains control) and the resulting gain or loss, if
any, is recognised in the statement of profit or loss. Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that
have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the statement of profit or loss, where such
treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of. Acquisition related costs are recognised in the statement of profit or
loss as incurred and presented in the statement of profit or loss as Other operating expenses.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

126

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

The initial accounting for the fair value of the net assets of the companies acquired during the year may be determined only
provisionally as the determination of the fair value can be complex and the time between the acquisition and the preparation of the
Annual accounts can be limited. The initial accounting shall be completed within a year after acquisition. Adjustments to the fair value
as at the date of acquisition of acquired assets and liabilities, that are identified within one year after acquisition are recognised as an
adjustment to goodwill; any subsequent adjustment is recognised as income or expense. On disposal of group companies, the
difference between the sale proceeds and carrying value (including goodwill) and the unrealised results (including the currency
translation reserve in equity) is included in the statement of profit or loss.

Goodwill impairment

ING assesses at each reporting period, whether there is an indication that an intangible asset may be impaired. Irrespective of whether
there is an indication of impairment, intangible assets with an indefinite useful life, including goodwill acquired in a business
combination, and intangible assets not yet available for use, are tested annually for impairment. Goodwill is allocated to groups of
CGUs (that is, the group of cash generating units or CGUs) for the purpose of impairment testing. These groups of CGUs represent the
lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. Goodwill is tested for impairment by comparing the
carrying value of the group of CGUs to the recoverable amount of that group of CGUs. The carrying value is determined as the IFRS net
asset value including goodwill. In compliance with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’, the carrying value is determined on a basis that is
consistent with the way in which the recoverable amount of the CGU is determined. When the carrying values need to be allocated
between Retail and Wholesale, solvency (risk-weighted assets) are used as a basis. The recoverable amount is estimated as the higher
of fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. Several methodologies are applied to arrive at the best estimate of the recoverable
amount. Impairment of goodwill, if applicable, is included in the statement of profit or loss in Other operating expenses.

Computer software

Computer software that has been purchased or generated internally for own use is stated at cost less amortisation and any
impairment losses. Amortisation is calculated on a straight-line basis over its useful life. This period will generally not exceed five
years. Amortisation is included in Other operating expenses.

Other intangible assets

Other intangible assets are capitalised and amortised over their expected economic life, which is generally between three and ten
years. Intangible assets with an indefinite life are not amortised.

Taxation

Income tax on the result for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the statement of profit or loss
but it is recognised directly in equity if the tax relates to items that are recognised directly in equity.

Deferred income tax

Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax basis of assets and
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated annual accounts. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and
laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred
income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary
differences can be utilised. Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries and
associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The tax effects of income tax losses available for carry forward are recognised as
an asset where it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which these losses can be utilised.
Fair value remeasurement of available-for-sale investments and cash flow hedges, are recognised directly in equity. Deferred tax
related to this fair value remeasurement is also recognised directly in equity and is subsequently recognised in the statement of profit
or loss together with the deferred gain or loss.
Uncertain tax positions are assessed continually by ING Group and in case it is probable that there will be a cash outflow; a current tax
liability is recognised.

Other assets

Investment property

Investment properties are recognised at fair value at the balance sheet date. Changes in the carrying amount resulting from
revaluations are recognised in the statement of profit or loss. On disposal, the difference between the sale proceeds and carrying
value is recognised in the statement of profit or loss.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

127

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Property obtained from foreclosures

Property obtained from foreclosures is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling
price, less applicable variable selling expenses. Property obtained from foreclosures is included in Other assets - Property development
and obtained from foreclosures.

Property development

Property developed and under development for which ING Group has the intention to sell the property after its completion is included
in Other assets – Property development and obtained from foreclosures.
Property developed and under development for which ING Group has the intention to sell the property under development after its
completion and where there is not yet a specifically negotiated contract is measured at direct construction cost incurred up to the
balance sheet date, including borrowing costs incurred during construction and ING Group’s own directly attributable development
and supervision expenses less any impairment losses. Profit is recognised using the completed contract method (on sale date of the
property). Impairment is recognised if the estimated selling price, less applicable variable selling expenses is lower than carrying value.
Property under development for which ING Group has the intention to sell the property under development after its completion and
where there is a specifically negotiated contract is valued using the percentage of completion method (pro rata profit recognition). The
stage of completion is measured by reference to costs incurred to date as percentage of total estimated costs for each contract.
Property under development is stated at fair value (with changes in fair value recognised in the statement of profit or loss) if ING Group
has the intention to recognise the property under development after completion as real estate investments.

Disposal groups held for sale and discontinued operations

Disposal groups (and groups of non-current assets) are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally
through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. This is only the case when the sale is highly probable and the disposal
group (or group of assets) is available for immediate sale in its present condition; management must be committed to the sale, which
is expected to occur within one year from the date of classification as held for sale.
Upon classification as held for sale, the carrying amount of the disposal group (or group of assets) is compared to its fair value less
cost to sell. If the fair value less cost to sell is lower than the carrying value, this expected loss is recognised through a reduction of the
carrying value of any goodwill related to the disposal group and the carrying value of certain other non-current non-financial assets.
Any excess of the expected loss over the reduction of the carrying amount of these relevant assets is not recognised upon
classification as held for sale, but is recognised as part of the result on disposal if and when a divestment transaction occurs.
When a group of assets that is classified as held for sale represents a major line of business or geographical area the disposal group is
classified as discontinued operations. Upon classification of a business as held for sale and discontinued operations the individual
income and expenses are presented within the Total net result from discontinued operations instead of being presented in the usual
line items in the Consolidated statement of profit or loss. All comparative years in the Consolidated statement of profit or loss are
restated and presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Furthermore, the individual assets and liabilities are
presented in the Consolidated statement of financial position as Assets and liabilities held for sale and are no longer included in the
usual line items in the Consolidated statement of financial position. Changes in assets and liabilities as a result of classification as held
for sale are included in the notes in the line Changes in composition of the group and other changes.

Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets

A provision is a present obligation arising from past events, the settlement of which is expected to result in an outflow of resources
embodying economic benefits, however the timing or the amount is uncertain. Provisions are discounted when the effect of the time
value of money is significant using a pre-tax discount rate.
Reorganisation provisions include employee termination benefits when the Group is demonstrably committed to either terminating
the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal, or providing termination
benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
A liability is recognised for a levy when the activity that triggers payment, as identified by the relevant legislation, occurs. For a levy
that is triggered upon reaching a minimum threshold, the liability is recognised only upon reaching the specified minimum threshold.
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of ING Group; or a present
obligation that arises from past events but is not recognised because it is either not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will
be required to settle the obligation or the amount of the obligation cannot be measured reliably. Contingent liabilities are not
recognised in the statement of financial position, but are rather disclosed in the notes unless the possibility of the outflow of economic
benefits is remote.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

128

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

A contingent asset is a possible asset that arises from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or
non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of ING Group. Contingent assets are recognised in
the statement of financial position only when realisation of the income that arises from such an asset is virtually certain. Contingent
assets are disclosed in the notes when an inflow of economic benefits is probable.
Significant judgements and critical accounting estimates and assumptions:
The recognition and measurement of provisions is an inherently uncertain process involving using judgement to determine when a
present obligation exists and estimates regarding probability, amounts and timing of cash flows.
ING Group may become involved in legal proceedings. The degree of uncertainty and the method of making the accounting estimate
depends on the individual case, its nature and complexity. Legal cases are usually one of a kind. Judgment is required to estimate the
probability of an unfavourable outcome and the amount of potential loss. For the assessment of litigation provisions the Group
consults with legal experts. Even taking into consideration legal experts’ advice, the probability of an outflow of economic benefits can
still be uncertain and the amount provisioned can remain sensitive to the assumptions used which may have a broad range of
outcomes. Reference is made to Note 14 ‘Provisions’. For legal proceedings where it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the
expected financial effect, that could result from the ultimate resolution of the proceedings, no provision is recognised, however
disclosure is included in the annual accounts. Reference is made to Note 45 ‘Legal proceedings’.
Key assumptions for the reorganisation provision are in estimating the amounts and timing of cash flows as the announced
transformation initiatives are implemented over a period of several years. Reference is made to Note 14 ‘Provisions’.

Other liabilities

Defined benefit plans

The net defined benefit asset or liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plans is
the fair value of the plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
Plan assets are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date. For determining the pension expense, the return on plan assets is
determined using a high quality corporate bond rate identical to the discount rate used in determining the defined benefit obligation.
Changes in plan assets that effect Shareholders’ equity and/or Net result, include mainly:
• Return on plan assets using a high quality corporate bond rate at the start of the reporting period which are recognised as staff
costs in the statement of profit or loss; and
• Remeasurements which are recognised in Other comprehensive income (equity).
The defined benefit obligation is calculated by internal and external actuaries through actuarial models and calculations using the
projected unit credit method. This method considers expected future payments required to settle the obligation resulting from
employee service in the current and prior periods, discounted using a high quality corporate bond rate. Inherent in these actuarial
models are assumptions including discount rates, rates of increase in future salary and benefit levels, mortality rates, trend rates in
health care costs, consumer price index and the expected level of indexation. The assumptions are based on available market data as
well as management expectations and are updated regularly. The actuarial assumptions may differ significantly from the actual
results due to changes in market conditions, economic and mortality trends, and other assumptions. Any changes in these
assumptions could have a significant impact on the defined benefit plan obligation and future pension costs.
Changes in the defined benefit obligation that effects Shareholders’ equity and/or Net result, include mainly:
• Service cost which are recognised as staff costs in the statement of profit or loss;
• Interest expenses using a high quality corporate bond rate at the start of the period which are recognised as staff costs in the
Statement of profit or loss; and
• Remeasurements which are recognised in Other comprehensive income (equity).
Remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income are not recycled to profit or loss. Any past service cost relating to a plan
amendment is recognised in profit or loss in the period of the plan amendment. Gains and losses on curtailments and settlements are
recognised in the statement of profit or loss when the curtailment or settlement occurs.
The recognition of a net defined benefit asset in the Consolidated statement of financial position is limited to the present value of any
economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in future contributions to the plans.

Defined contribution plans

For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a
mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The
contributions are recognised as staff expenses in the profit or loss when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset
to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

129

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Other post-employment obligations

Some group companies provide post-employment healthcare and other benefits to certain employees and former employees. The
entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of
a minimum service period. The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting
methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.

Income recognition
Interest

Interest income and expense are recognised in the statement of profit or loss using the effective interest method. The effective
interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or a financial liability and of allocating the interest
income or interest expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash
payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying
amount of the financial asset or financial liability. When calculating the effective interest rate, the Group estimates cash flows
considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument (for example, prepayment options) but does not consider future credit
losses. The calculation includes all fees and points paid or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the
effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts. Once a financial asset or a group of similar financial
assets has been written down as a result of an impairment loss, interest income is recognised using the rate of interest used to
discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
All interest income and expenses from trading positions and non-trading derivatives are classified as interest income and interest
expenses in the statement of profit or loss. Changes in the ‘clean fair value’ are included in Valuation results and net trading income.

Fees and commissions

Fees and commissions are generally recognised as the service is provided. Loan commitment fees for loans that are likely to be drawn
down are deferred (together with related direct costs) and recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate on the loan. Loan
syndication fees are recognised as income when the syndication has been completed and the Group has retained no part of the loan
package for itself or has retained a part at the same effective interest rate as the other participants. Commission and fees arising from
negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of, a transaction for a third party – such as the arrangement of the acquisition of shares
or other securities or the purchase or sale of businesses – are recognised on completion of the underlying transaction. Portfolio and
other management advisory and service fees are recognised based on the applicable service contracts as the service is provided. Asset
management fees related to investment funds and investment contract fees are recognised on a pro-rata basis over the period the
service is provided. The same principle is applied for wealth management, financial planning and custody services that are
continuously provided over an extended period of time. Fees received and paid between banks for payment services are classified as
commission income and expenses.

Lease income

The proceeds from leasing out assets under operating leases are recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease
agreement. Lease payments received in respect of finance leases when ING Group is the lessor are divided into an interest component
(recognised as interest income) and a repayment component.

Expense recognition

Expenses are recognised in the statement of profit or loss as incurred or when a decrease in future economic benefits related to a
decrease in an asset or an increase in a liability has arisen that can be measured reliably.

Share-based payments

Share-based payment expenses are recognised as a staff expense over the vesting period. A corresponding increase in equity is
recognised for equity-settled share-based payment transactions. A liability is recognised for cash-settled share-based payment
transactions. The fair value of equity-settled share-based payment transactions are measured at the grant date, and the fair value of
cash-settled share-based payment transactions are measured at each balance sheet date. Rights granted will remain valid until the
expiry date, even if the share based payment scheme is discontinued. The rights are subject to certain conditions, including a predetermined continuous period of service.

Earnings per ordinary share

Earnings per ordinary share is calculated on the basis of the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding. In calculating
the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding:
• Own shares held by group companies are deducted from the total number of ordinary shares in issue;
• The computation is based on daily averages; and
• In case of exercised warrants, the exercise date is taken into consideration.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

130

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

The non-voting equity securities are not ordinary shares, because their terms and conditions (especially with regard to coupons and
voting rights) are significantly different. Therefore, the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period is
not impacted by the non-voting equity securities.
Diluted earnings per share data are computed as if all convertible instruments outstanding at year-end were exercised at the
beginning of the period. It is also assumed that ING Group uses the assumed proceeds thus received to buy its own shares against the
average market price in the financial year. The net increase in the number of shares resulting from the exercise is added to the
average number of shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share.
Share options with fixed or determinable terms are treated as options in the calculation of diluted earnings per share, even though
they may be contingent on vesting. They are treated as outstanding on the grant date. Performance-based employee share options
are treated as contingently issuable shares because their issue is contingent upon satisfying specified conditions in addition to the
passage of time.

Statement of cash flows

The statement of cash flows is prepared in accordance with the indirect method, classifying cash flows as cash flows from operating,
investing and financing activities. In the net cash flow from operating activities, the result before tax is adjusted for those items in the
statement of profit or loss and changes in items per the statement of financial position, which do not result in actual cash flows during
the year.
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, Cash and cash equivalents comprise balances with less than three months’ maturity
from the date of acquisition, including cash and balances with central banks, treasury bills and other eligible bills, amounts due from
other banks, and deposits from banks. Investments qualify as a cash equivalent if they are readily convertible to a known amount of
cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Cash flows arising from foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates at the date
of the cash flows.
The net cash flow shown in respect of Loans and advances to customers relates only to transactions involving actual payments or
receipts. The Addition to loan loss provision which is deducted from the item Loans and advances to customers in the statement of
financial position has been adjusted accordingly from the result before tax and is shown separately in the statement of cash flows.
The difference between the net cash flow in accordance with the statement of cash flows and the change in Cash and cash
equivalents in the statement of financial position is due to exchange rate differences and is accounted for separately as part of the
reconciliation of the net cash flow and the change in Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position.
Liabilities arising from financing activities are debt securities and subordinated loans.

e) Parent company accounts

The parent company accounts of ING Groep N.V. are prepared in accordance with the financial reporting requirements included in Part
9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. In accordance with subsection 8 of section 362, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, the recognition and
measurement principles applied in the Parent company accounts are the same as those applied in the Consolidated annual accounts.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

131

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Notes to the Consolidated statement of financial position
Assets
2 Cash and balances with central banks
Cash and balances with central banks
Amounts held at central banks
Cash and bank balances

2017

2016

19,687

16,408

2,302

1,736

21,989

18,144

In 2017, the movement in Cash and balances with central banks reflects ING’s liquidity management.
Amounts held at central banks reflect on demand balances.
Reference is made to Note 41 ‘Assets not freely disposable’ for restrictions on Cash balances with central banks.

3 Loans and advances to banks
Loans and advances to banks
Netherlands

Loans
Cash advances, overdrafts and other balances

Loan loss provisions

International

Total

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

7,899

10,381

20,916

18,483

28,815

28,864

1

3

3

2

4

5

7,900

10,384

20,919

18,485

28,819

28,869

–7

–11

–8

–11

10,384

20,912

18,474

28,811

28,858

–1
7,899

Loans include balances (mainly short-term deposits) with central banks amounting to EUR 4,032 million (2016: EUR 2,880 million).
As at 31 December 2017, Loans include receivables related to securities in reverse repurchase transactions amounting to EUR 4,637
million (2016: EUR 2,992 million) and receivables related to finance lease contracts amounting to EUR 65 million (2016: EUR 88 million).
Reference is made to Note 42 ‘Transfer of financial assets’ for information on securities lending as well as sale and repurchase
transactions. Reference is made to Note 6 ‘Loans and advances to customers’ for information on finance lease receivables.
As at 31 December 2017, the non-subordinated receivables amount to EUR 28,768 million (2016: EUR 28,790 million) and the
subordinated receivables amount to EUR 43 million (2016: EUR 68 million).
Reference is made to Note 41 ‘Assets not freely disposable’ for restrictions on Loans and advances to banks.
No individual loans and advances to banks has terms and conditions that significantly affect the amount, timing or certainty of
consolidated cash flows of the Group. For details on significant concentrations, refer to the section ‘Risk management – Credit risk’
paragraph ‘Credit Risk Appetite and Concentration Risk Framework’.

4 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
2017

2016

116,748

114,504

Non-trading derivatives

2,231

2,490

Designated at fair value through profit or loss

4,242

5,099

123,221

122,093

Trading assets

ING Group Annual Report 2017

132

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Reference is made to Note 42 ‘Transfer of financial assets’ for information on securities lending as well as sale and repurchase
transactions.

Trading assets
Trading assets by type
Equity securities
Debt securities
Derivatives
Loans and receivables

2017

2016

13,666

9,513

7,477

9,863

27,444

38,231

68,161

56,897

116,748

114,504

As at 31 December 2017, Trading assets include receivables of EUR 67,138 million (2016: EUR 56,020 million) with regard to reverse
repurchase transactions.
Trading assets and Trading liabilities include assets and liabilities that are classified under IFRS as Trading but are closely related to
servicing the needs of the clients of ING Group. ING offers institutional clients, corporate clients, and governments, products that are
traded on the financial markets. A significant part of the derivatives in the trading portfolio are related to servicing corporate clients in
their risk management to hedge for example currency or interest rate exposures. In addition, ING provides its customers access to
equity and debt markets for issuing their own equity or debt securities (securities underwriting). Although these are presented as
Trading under IFRS, these are directly related to services to ING’s customers. Loans and receivables in the trading portfolio mainly
relate to (reverse) repurchase agreements, which are comparable to collateralised lending. These products are used by ING as part of
its own regular treasury activities, but also relate to the role that ING plays as intermediary between different professional customers.
From a risk perspective, the gross amount of trading assets must be considered together with the gross amount of trading liabilities,
which are presented separately on the statement of financial position. However, IFRS does not allow netting of these positions in the
statement of financial position. Reference is made to Note 13 ‘Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss’ for information on
trading liabilities.

Non-trading derivatives
Non-trading derivatives by type
2017

2016

− fair value hedges

685

1,012

− cash flow hedges

617

438

Derivatives used in

− hedges of net investments in foreign operations
Other non-trading derivatives

29

73

900

967

2,231

2,490

ING Group holds warrants for 35 million shares (2016: 35 million) and 7 million (2016: 26 million) shares in NN Group N.V. and Voya
Financial Inc. respectively.
Other non-trading derivatives mainly includes interest rate swaps and foreign exchange currency swaps for which no hedge
accounting is applied. As at 31 December 2017, Other non-trading derivatives includes EUR 51 million (2016: EUR 175 million ) and EUR
2 million (2016: EUR 19 million) related to warrants on the shares of Voya Financial Inc. and NN Group N.V. respectively. In 2017 ING
sold warrants for 19 million of the shares in Voya Financial Inc. Reference is made to Note 21 ‘Valuation results and net trading
income’.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

133

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Designated at fair value through profit or loss
Designated at fair value through profit or loss by type
2017

Equity securities
Debt securities
Loans and receivables

2016

4

3

1,739

1,669

2,499

3,427

4,242

5,099

Included in the Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss is a portfolio of loans and receivables which is
economically hedged by credit derivatives. The hedges do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting and the loans are recorded at
fair value to avoid an accounting mismatch. The maximum credit exposure of the loans and receivables included in Financial assets
designated at fair value through profit or loss approximates its carrying value. The cumulative change in fair value of the loans
attributable to changes in credit risk is not significant.
The notional value of the related credit derivatives is EUR 232 million (2016: EUR 260 million). The change in fair value of the credit
derivatives attributable to changes in credit risk since the loans were first designated, amounts to EUR -6 million (2016: EUR –8 million)
and the change for the current year amounts to EUR 2 million (2016: EUR 1 million).
The changes in fair value of the (designated) loans attributable to changes in credit risk have been calculated by determining the
changes in credit spread implicit in the fair value of bonds issued by entities with similar credit characteristics.
As at 31 December 2017, Loans and receivables designated at fair value through profit or loss includes EUR 2,095 million (2016:
EUR 3,001 million) with regard to reverse repurchase transactions.

5 Investments
Investments by type
2017

2016

Available-for-sale
− equity securities - shares in third party managed structured entities
− equity securities – other

− debt securities

168

170

3,815

3,854

3,983

4,024

65,747

78,888

69,730

82,912

Held-to-maturity
− debt securities

9,343

8,751

9,343

8,751

79,073

91,663

Exposure to equity securities
Available-for-sale equity securities - Listed and Unlisted
Listed
Unlisted

Listed equity securities are primarily made up of Bank of Beijing and Mahindra Kotak Bank.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

134

2017

2016

3,518

3,539

465

485

3,983

4,024

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Exposure to debt securities

ING Group’s exposure to debt securities is included in the following lines in the statement of financial position:
Debt securities
2017

2016

Available-for-sale investments

65,747

78,888

Held-to-maturity investments

9,343

8,751

Loans and advances to customers

5,099

7,471

Loans and advances to banks

265

952

80,454

96,062

Trading assets

7,477

9,863

Designated as at fair value through profit or loss

1,739

1,669

Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss

9,216

11,532

89,670

107,594

Available-for-sale investments and Assets at amortised cost

ING Group’s total exposure to debt securities included in available-for-sale investments and assets at amortised cost of EUR 80,454
million (2016: EUR 96,062 million) is specified as follows by type of exposure:
Debt securities by type and line items per the statement of financial position - Available-for-sale investments and Assets at
amortised cost
Available-for-sale
investments

Held-to-maturity
investments

Loans and advances
to customers

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

Government bonds

34,844

41,985

7,462

6,688

828

858

Sub-sovereign,
Supranationals and
Agencies

Loans and advances
to banks
2017

17,215

20,484

1,255

1,613

245

267

Covered bonds

8,737

11,297

100

100

418

1,820

Corporate bonds

1,284

1,345

970

791

Financial institutions’
bonds

1,701

2,020

311

429

351

107

ABS portfolio

1,966

1,757

215

350

2,209

3,384

4

65,747

78,888

9,343

8,751

5,099

7,471

265

Bond portfolio

154

2016

882

70
952

Total
2017

2016

43,134

49,531

18,715

22,364

9,409

14,099

2,254

2,136

2,548

2,441

4,394

5,491

80,454

96,062

Sub-sovereign Supranationals and Agencies (SSA) comprise amongst others, multilateral development banks, regional governments,
local authorities, and US agencies. Under certain conditions, SSA bonds may qualify as Level 1 High Quality Liquid Assets for the
Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR).
99% (2016: 97%) of the exposure in the ABS portfolio is externally rated AAA up to and including A-.
There are no borrowed debt securities recognised in the statement of financial position.
Reference is made to Note 42 ‘Transfer of financial assets’ for information on securities lending as well as sale and repurchase
transactions.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

135

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Changes in available-for-sale and held-to-maturity investments
Changes in available-for-sale and held-to-maturity investments

Opening balance
Additions

Available-for-sale
equity securities

Available-for-sale
debt securities

Held-to-maturity

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

4,024

4,434

78,888

82,566

8,751

7,826

91,663

94,826

325

80

21,276

27,073

3,609

1,731

25,210

28,884

–146

–144

–46

–87

–192

–231

Amortisation
Transfers and reclassifications

7

–92

Changes in unrealised revaluations1

21

363

Impairments

–6

–13

Reversal of impairments

–1,030

–102

–64

–70

3

Total

7

–92

–1,073

191

–6

–13

3

Disposals and redemptions

–79

–682

–32,709

–30,483

–2,675

–630

–35,463

–31,795

Exchange rate differences

–308

–72

–535

–16

–232

–19

–1,075

–107

65,747

78,888

9,343

8,751

79,073

Changes in the composition of the group and
other changes
Closing balance

–1

6

3,983

4,024

–6

–1
91,663

1 Changes in unrealised revaluations include changes on hedged items which are recognised in the statement of profit or loss.

In 2017 available-for-sale debt securities decreased by EUR 13 billion and is mainly related to lower positions in Government bonds,
Subsovereign Supranationals and Agencies, and covered bonds.
In 2017 ING participated in the private placement by Bank of Beijing (BoB). ING participated in the offering for an aggregate amount of
around EUR 240 million representing 265 million shares.
In October 2016 ING sold 2.5% of Kotak Mahindra Bank shares representing a carrying value of EUR 456 million.
Reference is made to Note 22 ‘Investment income’ for details on Impairments.

6 Loans and advances to customers
Loans and advances to customers by type
Netherlands1

Loans to, or guaranteed by, public authorities
Loans secured by mortgages
Loans guaranteed by credit institutions
Personal lending

Loan loss provisions

Total

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

26,975

27,746

19,397

18,634

46,372

46,380

121,702

126,885

204,883

195,328

326,585

322,213

257

201

1,722

944

1,979

1,145

3,162

3,236

20,074

18,722

23,236

21,958

2,209

3,380

2,209

3,380

38,208

39,670

140,461

134,092

178,669

173,762

190,304

197,738

388,746

371,100

579,050

568,838

–1,693

–2,349

–2,822

–2,829

–4,515

–5,178

188,611

195,389

385,924

368,271

574,535

563,660

Asset backed securities
Corporate loans

International1

1 In 2017, Loans and advances to customers by type as at 31 December 2016 have been restated to conform to current year presentation.

As at 31 December 2017, Loans and advances to customers includes receivables with regard to securities which have been acquired in
reverse repurchase transactions amounting to EUR 421 million (2016: EUR 47 million).
Reference is made to Note 42 ‘Transfer of financial assets’ for information on securities lending as well as sale and repurchase
transactions.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

136

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Loans and advances to customers by subordination
Non-subordinated
Subordinated

2017

2016

574,055

562,363

480

1,297

574,535

563,660

No individual loan or advance has terms and conditions that significantly affect the amount, timing or certainty of the consolidated
cash flows of the Group. For details on significant concentrations, refer to the section ‘Risk management – Credit risk’ paragraph ‘Credit
Risk Appetite and Concentration Risk Framework’.
Loans and advances to customers and Loans and advances to banks include finance lease receivables and are detailed as follows:
Finance lease receivables
2017

2016

− within 1 year

2,729

2,492

− more than 1 year but less than 5 years

6,215

6,282

− more than 5 years

2,897

3,114

11,841

11,888

Maturities of gross investment in finance lease receivables

Unearned future finance income on finance leases

–1,082

–1,254

Net investment in finance leases

10,759

10,634

− within 1 year

2,474

2,210

− more than 1 year but less than 5 years

5,652

5,635

− more than 5 years

2,633

2,789

10,759

10,634

Maturities of net investment in finance lease receivables

Included in Loans and advances to banks
Included in Loans and advances to customers

65

88

10,694

10,546

10,759

10,634

An allowance for uncollectable finance lease receivables of EUR 337 million as at 31 December 2017 (2016: EUR 282 million) is included
in the loan loss provision.
No individual finance lease receivable has terms and conditions that significantly affect the amount, timing or certainty of the
consolidated cash flows of the Group.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

137

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Loan loss provisions by type
Netherlands
2017

2016

Loans to, or guaranteed by, public authorities
Loans secured by mortgages
Loans guaranteed by credit institutions
Personal lending

Total

2016

2017

3

7

3

2016

7

347

550

526

638

873

1,188

2

2

7

12

9

14

118

122

746

620

864

742

9

2

9

2

Asset backed securities
Corporate loans and Credit Facilities

International
2017

1,268

1,738

1,602

1,617

2,870

3,355

1,735

2,412

2,893

2,896

4,628

5,308

7

11

8

11

2,349

2,822

2,829

4,515

5,178

The closing balance is included in
− Loans and advances to banks

1

− Loans and advances to customers

1,693

− Other provisions other

41

63

64

56

105

119

1,735

2,412

2,893

2,896

4,628

5,308

Changes in loan loss provisions
2017

2016

5,308

5,786

Write–offs

–1,279

–1,494

Recoveries

59

94

676

974

–136

–55

4,628

5,308

Opening balance

Increase in loan loss provisions
Exchange rate differences
Changes in the composition of the group and other changes

3

Closing balance

Movement in loan loss provisions is presented as Addition to loan loss provisions in the Consolidated statement of profit or loss.

7 Investments in associates and joint ventures
Investments in associates and joint ventures

2017

TMB Public Company Limited

Interest
held (%)

Fair value
of listed
investment

Balance
sheet
value

Total
assets

Total
liabilities

Total
income

Total
expenses

30

1,006

877

21,251

19,004

711

507

Other investments in associates and joint ventures

211
1,088

Investments in associates and joint ventures

2016

TMB Public Company Limited

Interest
held (%)

Fair value
of listed
investment

Balance
sheet
value

Total
assets

Total
liabilities

Total
income

Total
expenses

30

729

861

21,439

19,275

685

489

Other investments in associates and joint ventures

280
1,141

TMB Public Company Limited (TMB) is an associate in which ING Group holds a 30% ownership interest. TMB is a financial institution
providing products and services to Wholesale, Small and Medium Enterprise (SME), and Retail customers. TMB is domiciled in Bangkok,
Thailand and is listed on the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET).

ING Group Annual Report 2017

138

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Other investments in associates and joint ventures are mainly investment property funds or vehicles operating predominantly in
Europe.
ING Group does not hold any interests in Investments in Associates and joint ventures that are individually significant to ING Group.
Other investments in associates and joint ventures represents a large number of associates and joint ventures with an individual
statement of financial position value of less than EUR 50 million.
Significant influence for associates in which the interest held is below 20%, is based on the combination of ING Group’s financial
interest and other arrangements, such as participation in the Board of Directors.
The reporting dates of certain associates and joint ventures can differ from the reporting date of the Group, but by no more than three
months.
Accumulated impairments of EUR 33 million (2016: EUR 48 million) have been recognised. The values presented in the tables above
could differ from the values presented in the individual annual accounts of the associates and joint ventures, due to the fact that the
individual values have been brought in line with ING Group’s accounting principles. Where the listed fair value is lower than the
statement of financial position value, an impairment review and an evaluation of the going concern basis has been performed.
The associates and joint ventures of ING are subject to legal and regulatory restrictions regarding the amount of dividends it can pay
to ING. These restrictions are for example dependant on the laws in the country of incorporation for declaring dividends or as a result
of minimum capital requirements that are imposed by industry regulators in the countries in which the associates and joint ventures
operate. In addition, the associates and joint ventures also consider other factors in determining the appropriate levels of equity
needed. These factors and limitations include, but are not limited to, rating agency and regulatory views, which can change over time.
Changes in Investments in associates and joint ventures
2017

2016

1,141

962

Additions

79

49

Transfers to and from Investments/Other assets and liabilities

–1

75

Revaluations

–8

38

Opening balance

Share of results

178

91

Dividends received

–32

–37

–245

–54

–24

20

1,088

1,141

Disposals
Impairments

–3

Exchange rate differences
Closing balance

In 2017, Transfers to and from Investments/Other assets and liabilities of EUR –1 million (2016: 75 million) included EUR 5 million
reclassification from Available-for-sale equity securities to associates (2016: EUR 82 million) and EUR –6 million reclassification from/to
other assets and other liabilities (2016: EUR –7 million).
In 2017, Revaluations as presented in the table above of EUR –8 million relates to several smaller revaluations. In 2016 revaluations of
EUR 38 million includes EUR 54 million relating to TMB, EUR 17 million relating to Equens SE, and EUR –31 million due to other
revaluations.
In 2017, Share of results from associates and joint ventures of EUR 178 million as presented in the statement of profit or loss and the
table above, is mainly attributable to results of TMB, EUR 67 million and a gain of EUR 97 million on the sale of shares in Appia Group
Ltd UK.
In 2016, Share of results from associates and joint ventures of EUR 88 million as presented in the statement of profit or loss, includes:
• Share of results, as presented in the table above of EUR 91 million mainly attributable to results of TMB amounting to EUR 68
million and a gain of EUR 21 million on disposal of shares held in VISA Europe Limited; and
• Impairments of investments in associates and joint ventures of EUR –3 million.
In 2017, Disposals of EUR 245 million is mainly attributable to the sale of Appia Group Ltd UK of EUR 146 million and several other
smaller divestments in associates. In 2016, Disposals of EUR 54 million is mainly attributable to the sale of Enterprise Center of EUR 40
million and capital repayment CBRE Asia Value Fund of EUR 10 million.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

139

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

8 Property and equipment
Property and equipment by type
2017

2016

Property in own use

774

881

Equipment

917

1,015

Assets under operating leases

110

106

1,801

2,002

ING uses external valuers to value property in own use. All properties are typically appraised by external valuers once every five years.
Changes in property in own use
Opening balance
Additions

2017

2016

881

982

5

9

Reclassifications
-

Transfers to and from Investment properties

8
–

8

Amounts recognised in the statement of profit or loss for the year
-

Depreciation

–13

–15

-

Impairments

–8

–64

-

Reversal of impairments

24

5

3

–74

Revaluations recognised in equity during the year

42

11

–145

–38

Exchange rate differences

–12

–17

Closing balance

774

881

Disposals

Gross carrying amount as at 31 December

1,324

1,656

Accumulated depreciation as at 31 December

–376

–504

Accumulated impairments as at 31 December

–174

–271

774

881

256

273

Net carrying value as at 31 December
Revaluation surplus
Opening balance
Revaluation in the year
Closing balance

23

–17

279

256

The cost or the purchase price amounted to EUR 1,044 million (2016: EUR 1,400 million). Cost or the purchase price less accumulated
depreciation and impairments would have been EUR 495 million (2016: EUR 625 million) had property in own use been valued at cost
instead of at fair value.
In 2017, disposals of EUR –145 million is mainly attributable to the sale of office buildings in Belgium.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

140

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Changes in equipment
Data
processing equipment

Fixtures and fittings
and other equipment

Total

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

Opening balance

323

263

692

708

1,015

971

Additions

129

161

130

181

259

342

Disposals

–1

–5

–12

–20

–13

–25

–133

–137

–174

–178

–307

–315

–8

–5

–5

–5

–13

Changes in the composition of the group and other changes

–19

46

–3

6

–22

52

Closing balance

291

323

626

692

917

1,015

1,275

1,274

2,249

2,432

3,524

3,706

–983

–950

–1,623

–1,740

–2,606

–2,690

–1

–1

626

692

917

1,015

Depreciation
Impairments

–2

Exchange rate differences

Gross carrying amount as at 31 December
Accumulated depreciation as at 31 December
Accumulated impairments as at 31 December
Net carrying value as at 31 December

–1

–1

291

323

–2
–10

9 Intangible assets
Changes in intangible assets
Goodwill

Opening balance

Software

Other

Total

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

903

985

571

567

10

15

1,484

1,567

Additions

72

93

72

93

192

195

192

195

Amortisation

–173

–182

–179

–187

Impairments

–30

–45

–30

–45

–1

–87

–83

–9

–9

–9

Capitalised expenses

Exchange rate differences

–87

–82

Disposals

–9

Changes in the composition of the group and
other changes
Closing balance

816

903

Gross carrying amount as at 31 December

816

903

Accumulated amortisation as at 31 December
Accumulated impairments as at 31 December
Net carrying value as at 31 December

ING Group Annual Report 2017

816

903

141

–6

25

–47

1

648

571

5

–5

10

26

–47

1,469

1,484

1,902

1,756

30

29

2,748

2,688

–1,225

–1,147

–23

–17

–1,248

–1,164

–29

–38

–2

–2

–31

–40

648

571

5

10

1,469

1,484

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Goodwill

Goodwill is allocated to groups of cash generating units (CGUs) as follows:
Goodwill allocation to group of CGUs
Method used
for recoverable
amount

Discount Long term
rate growth rate

Group of CGU’s

Goodwill

Goodwill

2017

2016

Retail Belgium

Values in use

8.95%

1.30%

50

50

Retail Germany

Values in use

8.10%

1.30%

349

349
375

Retail Growth Markets1,
Wholesale Banking1

Fair value less
cost of disposal

-

-

307

Values in use

9.54%

2.12%

110

129

816

903

1 Goodwill related to Growth Countries is allocated across two groups of CGUs, EUR 307 million to Retail Growth Markets and EUR 90 million to Wholesale Banking
(2016: EUR 375 million to Retail Growth Markets and EUR 109 million to Wholesale Banking). The fair value less cost of disposal is based on Level 1 and Level
2 inputs.

No goodwill impairment was recognised in 2017 (2016: nil). Changes in the goodwill per group of CGUs in 2017 is due to changes in
currency exchange rates.

Methodology

Several methodologies are applied to arrive at the best estimate of the recoverable amount. In line with IFRS, the recoverable amount
is determined as the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal and Value in Use (VIU). Fair value less costs of disposal is based on
observable share prices (Level 1 inputs in the fair value hierarchy), observable Price-to-Book multiples of relevant peer banks (Level 2),
or based on a discounted free cash flow model (Level 3). The VIU calculation is based on a Dividend Discount model using five year
management approved plans. When estimating the VIU of a CGU, local conditions and requirements determine the capital
requirements, discount rates, and terminal growth rates. These local conditions and requirements determine the ability to upstream
excess capital and profits to ING Group. The discount rate calculation includes other inputs such as equity market premium, country
risk premium, and long term inflation which are based on market sources and management’s judgement. The long term growth rate
for EU-countries is based on long-term risk-free rate by reference to the yield of a composite index consisting of Euro generic
government bonds, with a maturity of 30 years. For other countries, the growth rate includes long term inflation rate obtained from
market sources.
The recoverable amount exceeds the carrying value of the CGUs for 2017 and 2016 and therefore no impairment is required.

Sensitivity of key assumptions

Key assumptions in the goodwill impairment test model are the Price-to-Book ratios, level 1 inputs (e.g. share price of a listed
subsidiary), and the local parameters for CET1, discount rate, and long term growth rates. The model was tested for sensitivity by
changing the key parameters in the model to more conservative values. The sensitivity analysis did not trigger additional impairment
considerations.

Software

Software, includes internally developed software amounting to EUR 477 million (2016: EUR 395 million).

ING Group Annual Report 2017

142

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

10 Other assets
Other assets by type
Net defined benefit assets
Investment properties
Property development and obtained from foreclosures
Accrued interest and rents
Other accrued assets
Amounts to be settled
Other

2017

2016

542

609

65

65

137

184

4,528

5,588

753

884

4,097

4,815

2,965

2,577

13,087

14,722

Disclosures in respect of Net defined benefit assets are provided in Note 35 ‘Pension and other post-employment benefits’.

Property development and obtained from foreclosures
Property development and obtained from foreclosures
2017

2016

Property developed

63

109

Property obtained from foreclosures

74

75

137

184

Property under development

Gross carrying amount as at 31 December
Accumulated impairments as at 31 December
Net carrying value

417

469

–280

–285

137

184

The total amount of borrowing costs relating to Property development and obtained from foreclosures, capitalised in 2017 is nil (2016:
nil).

Accrued interest and rents

As at 31 December 2017, the line item includes accrued interest of EUR 1,375 million (2016: EUR 1,939 million) on trading derivative
assets and EUR 2,505 million (2016: EUR 2,773 million) on loans and available-for-sale bonds. Accrued interest on trading derivative
assets should be considered together with accrued interest on trading derivative liabilities as included in Other liabilities. Reference is
made to Note 15 ‘Other liabilities’. The remainder of the balance relates mainly to accrued interest on cash flow hedges, fair value
hedges and other non-trading derivatives.

Amounts to be settled

Amounts to be settled are primarily transactions not settled at the balance sheet date. They are short term in nature and are
expected to settle shortly after the balance sheet date. The decrease in 2017 is attributable to lower market activity compared to prior
year end.

Other

Other assets - Other relates mainly to other receivables in the normal course of business. For 2017, this includes a receivable at the
Dutch level (from NN Group) regarding tax due by ING Australia Holdings Ltd related to the years 2007-2013, for which a full
reimbursement is expected to be received from NN Group. In 3Q 2017 a receivable was booked for the tax amount of EUR 121 million.
In 4Q 2017 a cash payment was received and reduced this amount due from NN Group to EUR 70 million.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

143

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Liabilities
11 Deposits from banks

Deposits from banks include non-subordinated debt from banks, except for amounts in the form of debt securities.
Deposits from banks by type
Netherlands
2017

Non-interest bearing

2016

181

Interest bearing

International

Total

2017

2016

2017

363

449

544

2016

449

17,230

13,778

19,047

17,737

36,277

31,515

17,411

13,778

19,410

18,186

36,821

31,964

In 2016, ING participated in the new targeted longer-term refinancing operations (TLTRO II) with EUR 10.7 billion. In 2017, ING
participated in the targeted longer-term refinancing operations (TLTRO II) with an additional EUR 7 billion.
The TLTRO aims to stimulate lending to the real economy in the Eurozone. The interest rate on the TLTRO’s is fixed over the life of each
operation at the benchmark rate of the European Central Bank.
Reference is made to Note 42 ‘Transfer of financial assets’ for information on securities lending as well as sale and repurchase
transactions.

12 Customer deposits
Customer deposits
2017

2016

Savings accounts

319,659

315,697

Credit balances on customer accounts

186,316

173,230

32,602

32,687

Corporate deposits
Other

1,222

1,328

539,799

522,942

Customer deposits by type
Netherlands

Non-interest bearing
Interest bearing

International

Total

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

15,910

13,536

21,688

16,911

37,598

30,447

151,302

151,446

350,899

341,049

502,201

492,495

167,212

164,982

372,587

357,960

539,799

522,942

Savings accounts relate to the balances on savings accounts, savings books, savings deposits, and time deposits of personal
customers. The interest payable on savings accounts, which is contractually added to the accounts, is also included.
Reference is made to Note 42 ‘Transfer of financial assets’ for information on securities lending as well as sale and repurchase
transactions.

13 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Trading liabilities
Non-trading derivatives
Designated at fair value through profit or loss

ING Group Annual Report 2017

144

2017

2016

73,596

83,167

2,331

3,541

11,215

12,266

87,142

98,974

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Trading liabilities
Trading liabilities by type
Equity securities
Debt securities
Funds on deposit
Derivatives

2017

2016

601

1,975

5,126

4,146

41,956

37,753

25,913

39,293

73,596

83,167

Reference is made to Note 42 ‘Transfer of financial assets’ for information on securities lending as well as sale and repurchase
transactions.

Non-trading derivatives
Non-trading derivatives by type
2017

2016

− fair value hedges

1,089

1,888

− cash flow hedges

339

671

Derivatives used in:

− hedges of net investments in foreign operations
Other non-trading derivatives

71

33

832

949

2,331

3,541

Other non-trading derivatives mainly includes interest rate swaps and foreign currency swaps for which no hedge accounting is
applied.

Designated as at fair value through profit or loss
Designated as at fair value through profit or loss by type
2017

2016

Debt securities

8,985

10,736

Funds entrusted

1,691

969

Subordinated liabilities

539

561

11,215

12,266

In 2017, the change in the fair value of financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss attributable to changes in
credit risk is EUR 78 million (2016: EUR 50 million) and EUR 248 million (2016: EUR 170 million) on a cumulative basis. This change has
been determined as the amount of change in fair value of the financial liability that is not attributable to changes in market conditions
that gave rise to market risk (i.e. mainly interest rate risk based on yield curves).
The amount that ING Group is contractually required to pay at maturity to the holders of financial liabilities designated as at fair value
through profit or loss is EUR 10,742 million (2016: EUR 11,720 million).

14 Provisions
Provisions by type
Reorganisation provisions
Other provisions

ING Group Annual Report 2017

145

2017

2016

1,097

1,482

616

546

1,713

2,028

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Reorganisation provisions
Changes in reorganisation provisions
2017

Opening balance
Additions
Unused amounts reversed
Utilised
Exchange rate differences
Other changes
Closing balance

2016

1,482

670

53

1,202

–58

–13

–369

–365

–1

–5

–10

–7

1,097

1,482

ING Group recognised an additional reorganisation provision of EUR 1,032 million in 2016, for the intended workforce reductions per
the intended digital transformation programmes. The intended initiatives are expected to result in a reduction of ING’s workforce
mainly in Belgium and the Netherlands during 2016 to 2021.
In 2017, changes in the reorganisation provisions was mainly attributable to existing initiatives following the intended digital
transformation programmes of ING Bank.
These initiatives are implemented over a period of several years and the estimate of the reorganisation provisions is inherently
uncertain. The provision at the balance sheet date represents the best estimate of the expected redundancy costs and are expected
to be sufficient to cover these costs.

Other provisions
Changes in other provisions
Litigation

Other

Total

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

Opening balance

353

187

193

107

546

294

Additions

186

235

135

120

321

355

Unused amounts reversed

–90

–46

–73

–6

–163

–52

Utilised

–82

–28

–23

–19

–105

–47

–3

–1

–8

–1

–11

–2

1

6

27

–8

28

–2

365

353

251

193

616

546

Exchange rate differences
Other changes
Closing balance

In 2017, Other provisions – other includes a provision related to Letters of Credit/Guarantees of EUR 104 million. As at 31 December
2017, amounts expected to be settled within twelve months, amount to EUR 448 million. The amounts included in Other provisions are
based on best estimates with regard to amounts and timing of cash flows required to settle the obligation.
Included in Other provisions – Litigation in 2017 and 2016, is a provision related to floating interest rate derivatives that were sold in
the Netherlands. Also included in this line in 2017, is a provision recognised for reimbursement of expenses associated to the
formalization of mortgages at ING Spain and a provision recognised for a discontinued business in ING Luxembourg. Reference is made
to Note 26 ‘Other operating expenses’ and Note 45 ‘Legal proceedings’.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

146

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

15 Other liabilities
Other liabilities by type
Net defined benefit liability

2017

2016

476

521

Other post-employment benefits
Other staff-related liabilities
Other taxation and social security contributions

87

87

504

498

479

495

Accrued interest

3,606

4,394

Costs payable

2,599

2,242

Share-based payment plan liabilities
Amounts to be settled
Other

23

26

5,017

6,391

3,273

2,198

16,064

16,852

Disclosures in respect of Net defined benefit liabilities are provided in Note 35 ‘Pension and other post-employment benefits’.

Other staff-related liabilities

Other staff-related liabilities includes vacation leave provisions, variable compensation provisions, jubilee provisions, and
disability/illness provisions.

Amounts to be settled

Amounts to be settled decreased compared to 31 December 2017 as a result of lower market activity.

Other

Other liabilities – Other relates mainly to year-end accruals.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

147

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

16 Debt securities in issue

Debt securities in issue relate to debentures and other issued debt securities with either fixed interest rates or interest rates based on
floating interest rate levels, such as certificates of deposit and accepted bills issued by ING Group, except for subordinated items. Debt
securities in issue do not include debt securities presented as Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. ING Group does not
have debt securities that are issued on terms other than those available in the normal course of business. The maturities of the debt
securities are as follows:
Debt securities in issue – maturities
2017

2016

Fixed rate debt securities
Within 1 year

29,296

27,208

More than 1 year but less than 2 years

7,084

12,151

More than 2 years but less than 3 years

7,629

7,365

More than 3 years but less than 4 years

8,369

7,893

More than 4 years but less than 5 years

5,411

8,674

More than 5 years

9,159

14,716

66,948

78,007

Total fixed rate debt securities
Floating rate debt securities
Within 1 year

15,091

13,278

More than 1 year but less than 2 years

3,932

2,724

More than 2 years but less than 3 years

1,341

4,168

More than 3 years but less than 4 years

278

793

More than 4 years but less than 5 years

3,673

320

More than 5 years

4,823

3,944

Total floating rate debt securities

29,138

25,227

Total debt securities

96,086

103,234

In 2017, the decrease in Debt securities in issue of EUR 7.1 billion is mainly attributable to a decrease in long term maturity bonds of
EUR 5.9 billion, a decrease of EUR 3.8 billion in certificates of deposit, a decrease of EUR 2.8 billion in covered bonds, and decrease in
other debt securities in issue EUR 0.9 billion, partially offset by an increase in commercial paper of EUR 6.3 billion.
As at 31 December 2017, ING Group has unused lines of credit available including the payment of commercial paper borrowings
relating to debt securities in issue of EUR 5,750 million (2016: EUR 12,015 million).

17 Subordinated loans
Subordinated loans by group companies
ING Groep N.V.
ING Group companies

2017

2016

8,253

7,203

7,715

10,020

15,968

17,223

Subordinated loans issued by ING Groep N.V. include loans issued to raise Tier 1 capital for ING Bank N.V. Under IFRS these bonds are
classified as liabilities and for regulatory purposes, they are considered capital. Subordinated loans issued by ING Group companies
comprise, for the most part, subordinated loans which are subordinated to all current and future liabilities of ING Bank N.V.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

148

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Changes in subordinated loans
2017

2016

17,223

16,411

2,331

2,070

Repayments

–2,343

–1,252

Exchange rate differences and other

–1,243

–6

Closing balance

15,968

17,223

Opening balance
New issuances

In February 2017, ING Groep N.V. issued EUR 750 million securities that qualify as subordinated CRD IV Tier 2 notes with coupon of
2.50% until 24 February 2024. In September 2017, ING Groep N.V. issued EUR 1,000 million securities that qualify as subordinated CRD
IV Tier 2 notes with coupon of 1.625% until 26 September 2024. In April 2017 ING Groep N.V. issued EUR 1,000 million subordinated
CRD IV Tier 2 securities replacing EUR 1,000 million subordinated Tier 2 securities issued by ING Bank N.V. In 2017 ING Groep N.V. issued
other private placements with total notional amounts of JPN 22,000 million and USD 260 million.
In March, and October 2017 respectively, ING Groep N.V. redeemed the USD 1,100 million 7.20% perpetual and the USD 500 million
6.2% Perpetual Debt Securities. In September 2017 ING redeemed the USD 522 million Additional Tier 1 instrument issued by ING
Capital Funding Trust III.
The average interest rate on subordinated loans is 4.73% (2016: 4.94%). The interest expense during the year 2017 was EUR 784
million (2016: EUR 816 million).
For additional information, reference is made to the Parent company annual accounts, Note 5 ‘Subordinated loans’.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

149

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Equity
18 Equity
Total equity
2017

2016

2015

Share capital and share premium
-

Share capital

-

Share premium

39

39

928

17,006

16,950

16,054

17,045

16,989

16,982

Other reserves
-

Revaluation reserve: Available-for-sale and other

3,447

3,830

3,896

-

Revaluation reserve: Cash flow hedge

263

777

666

-

Revaluation reserve: Property in own use

203

204

326

-

Net defined benefit asset/liability remeasurement reserve

–400

–371

–306

-

Currency translation reserve

-

Share of associates and joint ventures and other

-

Treasury shares

–1,663

–770

–538

2,527

2,235

1,733

–15

–8

–18

4,362

5,897

5,759

Retained earnings

28,999

26,907

25,091

Shareholders’ equity (parent)

50,406

49,793

47,832

715

606

638

51,121

50,399

48,470

Non-controlling interests
Total equity

Share capital and share premium
Share capital
Share capital
Ordinary shares (par value EUR 0.01)
Number x 1,000

Amount

2017

2016

2015

2017

2016

2015

Authorised share capital

14,729,000

14,729,000

14,500,000

147

147

3,480

Unissued share capital

10,843,210

10,850,516

10,629,817

108

108

2,552

3,885,790

3,878,484

3,870,183

39

39

928

Issued share capital

Changes in issued share capital
Ordinary shares
(par value EUR 0.01)

Issued share capital as at 1 January 2015
Issue of shares
Issued share capital as at 31 December 2015
Issue of shares

Number x
1,000

Amount

3,858,862

925

11,321

3

3,870,183

928

8,301

Transfer to share premium
Issued share capital as at 31 December 2016

3,878,484

Issue of shares

39

7,306

Issued share capital as at 31 December 2017

ING Group Annual Report 2017

2
–891

3,885,790

150

39

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

In 2017, ING Groep N.V. issued 7.3 million ordinary shares (2016: 8.3 million depositary receipts for ordinary shares, converted into
ordinary shares per 26 July 2016 and 2015: 11.3 million: depositary receipts for ordinary shares). These issues were made in order to
fund obligations arising from share-based employee incentive programmes.
During the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in 2016, it was decided to reduce the par value per ordinary share from EUR 0.24
(2015) to EUR 0.01. As a result of this, EUR 891 million is attributed to the Share premium. For further information, reference is made to
the section ‘Depository receipts for ordinary shares’, below.
In 2017, 2016 and 2015 respectively, ING Groep N.V. issued nil, USD 1,000 million and USD 2,250 million Perpetual Additional Tier 1
Contingent Convertible Capital Securities which can, in accordance with their terms and conditions, convert by operation of law into
ordinary shares if the conditions to such conversion are fulfilled. As a result of this conversion, the issued share capital can increase by
no more than 111 million and 250 million ordinary shares, respectively. Reference is made to Note 17 ‘Subordinated loans’ and to the
Parent company annual accounts, Note 5 ‘Subordinated loans’.
Ordinary shares
All ordinary shares are in registered form. No share certificates have been issued. Ordinary shares may be transferred by means of a
deed of transfer. A transfer of ordinary shares requires written acknowledgement by ING Groep N.V. Ordinary shares are listed on
various stock exchanges. The par value of ordinary shares is EUR 0.01 as of 26 July 2016, the date of amendment of the Articles of
Association of ING Groep N.V. (2015: EUR 0.24). The authorised ordinary share capital of ING Groep N.V. currently consists of 14,729
million ordinary shares. As at 31 December 2017, 3,886 million ordinary shares were issued and fully paid.
Depositary receipts for ordinary shares
In 2016, ING Group proposed to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to amend the Articles of Association, which included the
abolishment of the depositary receipt structure via Stichting Aandelen (ING Trust Office).
Following the adoption of the amendments to the Articles of Association, at the Annual General Meeting on 25 April 2016, the
depositary receipt structure was abolished on 26 July 2016. As a result of the amendments to the Articles of Association, a holder of a
depositary receipt became entitled to ordinary shares in ING in exchange for depositary receipts previously held.
The conversion of ING Groep N.V. depositary receipts for shares into ING Groep N.V. ordinary shares took place on 26 July 2016. On the
same date, the related changes to the Articles of Association, including the reduction of the nominal value of the shares from EUR 0.24
to EUR 0.01, were implemented.
ING’s American Depositary Receipts (ADR’s), which are traded on the New York Stock Exchange, remain in place. Similarly, the separate
arrangement with the ING Continuity Foundation, regarding its call option to acquire preference shares in ING Group under certain
circumstances, remains in place.
As per 26 July 2016, more than 99.9% of the issued ordinary shares were held by Stichting ING Aandelen (ING Trust Office). In
exchange for these shares, ING Trust Office issued depositary receipts. These depositary receipts were listed on various stock
exchanges. Depositary receipts could be exchanged upon request of the holders of depositary receipts for (non-listed) ordinary shares
without any restriction, other than payment of an administrative fee of EUR 0.01 per depositary receipt with a minimum of EUR 25 per
exchange transaction.
The holder of a depositary receipt was entitled to receive from ING Trust Office payment of dividends and distributions corresponding
to the dividends and distributions received by ING Trust Office on an ordinary share.
Ordinary shares held by ING Group (Treasury shares)
As at 31 December 2017, 0.9 million ordinary shares (2016: 0.6 million ordinary shares and 2015: 1.5 million - depositary receipts for
ordinary shares) of ING Groep N.V. with a par value of EUR 0.01 (2015: EUR 0.24) are held by ING Groep N.V. or its subsidiaries. The
obligations with regard to the existing stock option plan and the share plans will be funded either by cash or by newly issued shares at
the discretion of ING Group.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

151

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Share premium
Share premium
Opening balance
Issue of shares

2017

2016

2015

16,950

16,054

16,046

5

8

56

Transfer from issued share capital

891

Closing balance

17,006

16,950

16,054

The increase in share premium, is a result of the issuance of ordinary shares related to share-based employee incentive programmes.
In 2016, the share premium increased by EUR 896 million, mainly as a result of a transfer from issued share capital as described
above.

Other reserves

Revaluation reserve: Available-for-sale and other
Changes in revaluation reserve: Available-for-sale and other
Opening balance
Unrealised revaluations
Realised gains/losses transferred to the statement of profit or loss

2017

2016

2015

3,830

3,896

6,838

–293

80

1,188

–90

–146

Transfer to insurance liabilities/DAC

–94
–254

Impact of deconsolidation of NN Group

–2,940

Impact of partial divestment of NN Group

–855

Changes in composition of the group and other changes

13

Closing balance

3,447

3,830

3,896

In 2017, the available-for-sale revaluation reserve decreased by EUR 383 million mainly due to the revaluation of shares in Bank of
Beijing EUR –479 million, partly offset by revaluation of shares in Kotak Mahindra Bank EUR 302 million.
Following the purchase of VISA Europe by VISA Inc. in 2016, the available-for-sale equity securities were derecognised from the
statement of financial position with a corresponding release of the available-for-sale revaluation reserve recognised in Equity of EUR
154 million. Reference is made to Note 7 ‘Share of results of associates and joint ventures, and Note 37 ‘Fair value of assets and
liabilities’.
In 2015 Transfer to insurance liabilities/DAC comprised the change in insurance liabilities related to NN Group and Voya, until
deconsolidation at the end of May 2015.

Revaluation reserve: Cash flow hedge
Changes in revaluation reserve: Cash flow hedge
Opening balance
Changes in cash flow hedge reserve

2017

2016

2015

777

666

3,877

–514

111

Impact of deconsolidation of NN Group
Impact of partial divestment of NN Group

–649

Changes in composition of the group and other changes

10

Closing balance

ING Group Annual Report 2017

–65
–2,507

263

152

777

666

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Revaluation reserve: Property in own use
Changes in revaluation reserve: Property in own use
Opening balance
Unrealised revaluations

2017

2016

2015

204

326

306

25

5

38

Impact of deconsolidation of NN Group

–9

Impact of partial divestment of NN Group

–3

Changes in composition of the group and other changes

–26

–127

–6

Closing balance

203

204

326

In 2017 and 2016 respectively the EUR –26 million and EUR –127 million is a transfer of revaluation reserve to retained earnings.
Reference is made to Note 27 ‘Discontinued Operations’, for further information on NN Group divestment transactions.

Net defined benefit asset/liability remeasurement reserve

Reference is made to Note 35 ‘Pension and other post-employment benefits’.

Currency translation reserve
Changes in currency translation reserve
Opening balance
Unrealised revaluations

2017

2016

2015

–770

–538

–741

192

–76

–263

Impact of deconsolidation of NN Group

26

Impact of partial divestment of NN Group

8

Exchange rate differences

–1,085

–156

432

Closing balance

–1,663

–770

–538

Unrealised revaluations relates to changes in the value of hedging instruments that are designated as net investment hedges.
The hedging strategy is to hedge the CET1 ratio. The net decrease in currency translation reserve of EUR 893 million is mainly caused
by exchange rate differences in TRY, USD and AUD, which are not or only partly hedged.
Reference is made to Note 27 ‘Discontinued Operations’, for further information on NN Group divestment transactions.

Share of associates, joint ventures and other reserves
Changes in share of associates, joint ventures and other reserves
2017

2016

2015

2,235

1,733

1,483

Result for the year

153

124

131

Transfer to/from retained earnings

139

265
113

119

2,527

2,235

1,733

Opening balance

Changes in composition of the group and other changes
Closing balance

ING Group Annual Report 2017

153

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Treasury shares
Changes in treasury shares
Amount

Number

2017

2016

2015

2017

2016

2015

Opening balance

–8

–18

–46

600,634

1,464,025

4,302,122

Purchased/sold

–7

10

28

343,623

–863,391

–2,810,775

–15

–8

–18

944,257

600,634

1,464,025

Share-based payments

–27,322

Closing balance

Retained earnings
Changes in retained earnings
Opening balance
Transfer to/from share of associates and joint ventures reserves
Result for the year

2017

2016

2015

26,907

25,091

23,160

–139

–265

4,752

4,527

3,879

–2,564

–2,521

–1,393

21

75

105

26,907

25,091

Impact of partial divestment of NN Group

–270

Dividend
Coupon on Undated subordinated notes issued by NN Group

–19

Employee stock options and share plans
Changes in composition of the group and other changes

22

Closing balance

28,999

–371

In 2017, a cash dividend of EUR 2,564 million was paid to the shareholders of ING Group.
In 2016, a cash dividend of EUR 2,521 million was paid to the shareholders of ING Group.
In 2015, a cash dividend of EUR 1,393 million was paid to the shareholders of ING Group.
In 2015, the coupon on Undated subordinated notes issued by NN Group comprised coupon payments for the five months, until
deconsolidation of NN Group at the end of May 2015.
For further information, reference is made to Note 29 ‘Dividend per ordinary share’ and Note 27 ‘Discontinued Operations’.

Non-controlling interests

In 2015, Non-controlling interests decreased by EUR 7,434 million and was mainly related to the deconsolidation of NN Group.
Reference is made to Note 27 ‘Discontinued Operations’.

Ordinary shares - Restrictions with respect to dividend and repayment of capital

The following equity components cannot be freely distributed: Revaluation reserves (being Available for-sale and other, Cash flow
hedge, Property in own use, and Net defined benefit asset/liability remeasurement reserve), Currency translation reserve, Share of
associates and joint ventures reserve, and the part of the Retained earnings that relate to the former Stichting Regio Bank and the
former Stichting Vakbondsspaarbank SPN.
As at 31 December 2017, an amount of EUR 1,478 million (2016: EUR 1,325 million; 2015: EUR 1,201 million) related to the former
Stichting Regio Bank and the former Stichting Vakbondsspaarbank SPN is included.
ING Groep N.V. is subject to legal restrictions regarding the amount of dividends it can pay to the holders of its ordinary shares.
Pursuant to the Dutch Civil Code, dividends can only be paid up to an amount equal to the excess of the company’s own funds over
the sum of the paid-up capital and reserves required by law.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

154

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Moreover, ING Groep N.V.’s ability to pay dividends is dependent on the dividend payment ability of its subsidiaries, associates and
joint ventures. ING Groep N.V. is legally required to create a non-distributable reserve insofar as profits of its subsidiaries, associates
and joint ventures are subject to dividend payment restrictions which apply to those subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
themselves. Such restrictions may among others be of a similar nature as the restrictions which apply to ING Groep N.V., including
minimum capital requirements that are imposed by industry regulators in the countries in which the subsidiaries, associates and joint
ventures operate, or other limitations which may exist in certain countries.
Non distributable reserves, determined in accordance with the financial reporting requirements included in Part 9 of Book 2 of the
Dutch Civil Code, from ING Group’s subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are as follows:
Non-distributable reserves
ING Bank
Other
Non-distributable reserves

2017

2016

2015

7,603

7,310

6,824

75

69

7,678

7,379

6,824

Furthermore there are restrictions to the ability of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to distribute reserves to ING Groep N.V. as
a result of minimum capital requirements that are imposed by industry regulators in the countries in which the subsidiaries operate.
In addition to the legal and regulatory restrictions on distributing dividends from subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to ING
Groep N.V. there are various other considerations and limitations that are taken into account in determining the appropriate levels of
equity in the Group’s subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures. These considerations and limitations include, but are not restricted to,
rating agency and regulatory views, which can change over time; it is not possible to disclose a reliable quantification of these
limitations. For an overview of the minimal capital requirements of ING Group refer to the ‘Capital Management’ section.
Without prejudice to the authority of the Executive Board to allocate profits to reserves and to the fact that the ordinary shares are
the most junior securities issued by ING Groep N.V., no specific dividend payment restrictions with respect to ordinary shares exist.
Furthermore, ING Groep N.V. is subject to legal restrictions with respect to repayment of capital to holders of ordinary shares. Capital
may be repaid to the holders of ordinary shares pursuant to an amendment of ING Groep N.V.’s Articles of Association whereby the
ordinary shares are written down.
Pursuant to the Dutch Civil Code, capital may only be repaid if none of ING Groep N.V.’s creditors opposes such a repayment within two
months following the announcement of a resolution to that effect.

Cumulative preference shares (not issued)

Pursuant to the Articles of Association of ING Groep N.V. the authorised cumulative preference share capital consists of 4.6 billion
cumulative preference shares, of which none have been issued. The par value of these cumulative preference shares is EUR 0.01.
The cumulative preference shares rank before the ordinary shares in entitlement to dividend and to distributions upon liquidation of
ING Groep N.V.
The dividend on the cumulative preference shares will be equal to a percentage, calculated on the amount compulsorily paid up or yet
to be paid up. This percentage shall be equal to the average of the Euro OverNight Index Average (EONIA) as calculated by the
European Central Bank during the financial year for which the distribution is made; this percentage being weighted on the basis of the
number of days for which it applies, and increased by 2.5 percentage points.
If, and to the extent that the profit available for distribution is not sufficient to pay the dividend referred to above in full, the shortfall
will be made up from the reserves insofar as possible. If, and to the extent that, the dividend distribution cannot be made from the
reserves, the profits earned in subsequent years shall first be used to make up the shortfall before any distribution may be made on
shares of any other category.
ING Groep N.V.’s Articles of Association make provision for the cancellation of cumulative preference shares. Upon cancellation of
cumulative preference shares and upon liquidation of ING Groep N.V., the amount paid up on the cumulative preference shares will be
repaid together with the accrued dividend as well as any dividend shortfall in preceding years, insofar as this shortfall has not yet been
made up.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

155

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Cumulative preference shares - Restrictions with respect to dividend and repayment of capital

ING Groep N.V. is subject to legal restrictions regarding the amount of dividends it can pay to the holders of its cumulative preference
shares, when issued. Pursuant to the Dutch Civil Code, dividends can only be paid up to an amount equal to the excess of the
company’s own funds over the sum of the paid-up capital, and reserves required by law.
Moreover, ING Groep N.V.’s ability to pay dividends is dependent on the dividend payment ability of its subsidiaries, associates and
joint ventures. ING Groep N.V. is legally required to create a non-distributable reserve insofar as profits of its subsidiaries, associates
and joint ventures are subject to dividend payment restrictions which apply to those subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
themselves. Such restrictions may among others be of a similar nature as the restrictions which apply to ING Groep N.V., including
minimum capital requirements that are imposed by industry regulators in the countries in which the subsidiaries, associates and joint
ventures operate, or other limitations which may exist in certain countries.
No specific dividend payment restrictions with respect to the cumulative preference shares exist.
Furthermore, ING Groep N.V. is subject to legal restrictions with respect to repayment of capital to holders of cumulative preference
shares. Capital may be repaid to the holders of cumulative preference shares pursuant to (i) an amendment of ING Groep N.V.’s
Articles of Association whereby the cumulative preference shares are written-down or (ii) a resolution to redeem and cancel the
cumulative preference shares.
Pursuant to the Dutch Civil Code, capital may only be repaid if none of ING Groep N.V.’s creditors opposes such a repayment within two
months following the announcement of a resolution to that effect.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

156

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Notes to the Consolidated statement of profit or loss
19 Net interest income
Net interest income
Interest income on loans
Interest income on impaired loans

2017

2016

2015

18,352

18,407

19,185
42

54

69

500

175

64

18,906

18,651

19,291

Interest income on available-for-sale securities

1,340

1,659

1,785

Interest income on held-to-maturity securities

154

97

101

16,108

16,081

17,130

1,028

728

677

594

623

788

5,690

6,213

6,394

Negative interest on liabilities
Total interest income on loans

Interest income on trading derivatives
Interest income on other trading portfolio
Interest income on non-trading derivatives (no hedge accounting)
Interest income on non-trading derivatives (hedge accounting)
Other interest income
Interest income
Interest expense on deposits from banks

138

130

155

43,958

44,182

46,321

301

283

302

Interest expense on customer deposits

2,665

3,160

4,177

Interest expense on debt securities

2,054

2,290

2,535

784

816

901

16,117

16,263

17,405

Interest expense on other trading liabilities

744

210

207

Interest expense on non-trading derivatives (no hedge accounting)

895

652

652

5,946

6,720

7,181

Other interest expense

331

363

360

Negative interest on assets

407

184

40

Interest expense

30,244

30,941

33,760

Net interest income

13,714

13,241

12,561

Interest expense on subordinated loans
Interest expense on trading derivatives

Interest expense on non-trading derivatives (hedge accounting)

In 2017, the modest increase in total average assets combined with an improvement of the net interest margin, lead to an increase of
EUR 473 million in net interest income. The modest increase in total average assets was mainly attributable to an increase in
customer lending and cash and balances with central banks, largely offset by a decline in investments.
In 2016, the increase in total average assets (with the cash pool balances until March 2016 still calculated on a net basis in order to
provide consistent information), combined with an improvement of the net interest margin, lead to an increase of EUR 680 million in
net interest income. The increase in total average assets was mainly attributable to an increase in customer lending, partly offset by a
decline in financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

157

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

20 Net commission income
Fee and commission income
Funds transfer

2017

2016

2015

1,172

1,103

1,014

Securities business

532

497

570

Insurance broking

176

181

185

Asset management fees

116

91

74

Brokerage and advisory fees

548

477

436

Other

1,321

1,232

1,132

3,865

3,581

3,411

Included in Other, are commission fees of EUR 209 million (2016: EUR 202 million; 2015: EUR 171 million) in respect of bank
guarantees, commission fees of EUR 52 million (2016: EUR 44 million; 2015: EUR 30 million) in respect of underwriting syndication
loans, structured finance fees of EUR 136 million (2016: EUR 110 million; 2015: EUR 87 million), and collective instruments distributed
but not managed by ING of EUR 165 million (2016: EUR 145 million; 2015: EUR 145 million).
Fee and commission expenses
2017

2016

2015

Funds transfer

437

403

385

Securities business

150

166

158

Insurance broking

4

8

18

Asset management fees

5

5

2

192

166

140

Brokerage and advisory fees
Other

367

400

390

1,155

1,148

1,093

21 Valuation results and net trading income
Valuation results and net trading income
Securities trading results
Derivatives trading results

2017

2016

2015

656

–369

1,352

59

706

600

700

241

1,243

44

–16

31

–1,185

1,692

–332

–793

–167

–1,229

–56

–79

372

1,194

–898

–820

Change in fair value of derivatives relating to
– fair value hedges
– cash flow hedges (ineffective portion)
– other non-trading derivatives
Change in fair value of assets and liabilities (hedged items)
Valuation results on assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss (excluding trading)
Foreign exchange transactions results
Other

9

24

66

628

1,134

1,283

Securities trading results includes the results of market making in instruments such as government securities, equity securities,
corporate debt securities, money-market instruments, and interest rate derivatives such as swaps, options, futures, and forward
contracts. Foreign exchange transactions results include gains and losses from spot and forward contracts, options, futures, and
translated foreign currency assets and liabilities.
The portion of trading gains and losses relating to trading securities still held as at 31 December 2017 amounts to EUR –68 million
(2016: EUR –232 million; 2015: EUR 147 million).

ING Group Annual Report 2017

158

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Net trading income relates to trading assets and trading liabilities which include assets and liabilities that are classified under IFRS as
Trading but are closely related to servicing the needs of the clients of ING. ING offers products that are traded on the financial markets
to institutional clients, corporate clients, and governments. A significant part of the derivatives in the trading portfolio are related to
servicing corporate clients in their risk management to hedge for example currency or interest rate exposures. In addition, ING
provides its customers access to equity and debt markets for issuing their own equity or debt securities (securities underwriting).
Although these are presented as Trading under IFRS, these are directly related to services to ING’s customers. Loans and receivables in
the trading portfolio mainly relate to (reverse) repurchase agreements, which are comparable to collateralised borrowing (lending).
These products are used by ING as part of its own regular treasury activities, but also relate to the role that ING plays as intermediary
between different professional customers. From a risk perspective, the gross amount of trading assets must be considered together
with the gross amount of trading liabilities, which are presented separately on the statement of financial position. However, IFRS does
not allow netting of these positions in the statement of financial position. Reference is made to Note 4 ‘Financial assets at fair value
through profit or loss’ and Note 13 ‘Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss’ for information on trading liabilities.
The majority of the risks involved in security and currency trading is economically hedged with derivatives. The securities trading
results are partly offset by results on these derivatives. The result of these derivatives is included in Derivatives trading results.
ING Group’s trading books are managed based on internal limits and comprise a mix of products with results which could be offset. The
results are presented in various lines within the statement of profit or loss. Reference is made to Note 19 ‘Net interest income’.
In 2017, Derivatives trading results includes EUR 47 million CVA/DVA adjustments on trading derivatives, compared with EUR 36 million
CVA/DVA adjustment in 2016 (2015: EUR 98 million).
Valuation results and net trading income includes the fair value movements on derivatives (used for both hedge accounting and
economically hedging exposures) as well as the changes in the fair value of assets and liabilities included in hedging relationships as
hedged items. In addition, Valuation results and net trading income includes the results on assets and liabilities designated at fair
value through profit or loss.
Included in the Valuation results and net trading income are the fair value movements on derivatives used to economically hedge
exposures, but for which no hedge accounting is applied. The fair value movements on the derivatives are influenced by changes in
the market conditions, such as stock prices, interest rates and currency exchange rates.
Valuation results and net trading income are reflected in the Consolidated statement of cash flows in the line Result before tax Adjusted for: other.
The Valuation results on assets and liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss includes fair value changes on certain
issued debt securities. Valuation results on assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss were mainly due to
changes in the fair value of financial liabilities driven by changes in market conditions and changes in own credit risk as disclosed in
Note 13 ‘Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss’. Market conditions include in particular credit spread developments.
In 2017, Valuation results on assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss (excluding trading) includes fair value
adjustments on own issued notes amounting to EUR –107 million (2016: EUR –70 million; 2015: EUR 404 million), of which DVA
adjustment on own issued notes in 2017 amounted to EUR –79 million (2016: EUR –50 million; 2015: EUR 163 million).
In 2017, Valuation results and net trading income includes EUR –52 million related to warrants on the shares of Voya and NN Group
(2016: EUR 33 million; 2015: EUR –19 million). Reference is made to Note 4 ‘Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss’.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

159

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

22 Investment income
Investment income
2017

2016

2015

Dividend income

80

87

63

Realised gains/losses on disposal of debt securities

64

107

123

Impairments of available-for-sale debt securities

–17

Reversal of impairments of available-for-sale debt securities

3

Realised gains/losses and impairments of debt securities

67

107

Realised gains/losses on disposal of equity securities

48

236

67

Impairments of available-for-sale equity securities

–6

–13

–117

Realised gains/losses and impairments of equity securities

42

223

–50

Income from and fair value gains/losses on investment properties
Investment income

106

3

4

4

192

421

123

In 2016, Dividend income includes EUR 16 million received as a result of the merger between Equens SE and Worldline. Reference is
made to Note 5 ‘Investments’.
In 2016, Realised gains/losses on disposal of equity securities includes mainly EUR 163 million comprising the gain on disposal of the
shares held in VISA Europe Limited. For further information on the disposal of shares held in VISA Europe Limited, reference is made to
Note 7 ‘Share of associates and joint ventures’, and Note 18 ‘Equity’.
Impairments and reversals of impairments on investments are presented within Investment income, which is part of Total income.
Impairments and reversals of impairment on investments per segment
Impairments
2017

2016

Retail Belgium

2015

Reversal of impairments
2017

2016

2015

–

–

–5

Wholesale Banking

–5

–8

Corporate Line Banking

–1

–5

–6

–13

–129

3

–134

3

23 Result on disposal of group companies
Result on disposal of group companies
Baring Private Equity Partners

2017

2016

1

1

2015

ING Lease UK

7
–5

1

1

2

In 2017, 2016 and 2015 the Result on disposal of group companies included realised deferred profits on divestments in prior periods
related to Baring Private Equity Partners. In addition, 2015 includes a release of goodwill related to the disposal of the remaining
portfolios of ING Lease (UK). Reference is made to Note 9 ‘Intangible assets’.
In 2016 and 2015 the result on divestments of NN Group and the divestment of Voya was not included above but included in Net
result from disposal of discontinued operations. Reference is made to Note 27 'Discontinued operations', and Note 46 ‘Consolidated
companies and businesses acquired and divested’.

24 Other income

In 2017, Other income of EUR 350 million (2016: EUR 173 million; 2015: EUR 66 million) includes EUR 121 million related to a tax charge
at ING Australia Holdings Ltd, for which a full reimbursement is expected to be received from NN Group. Net operating lease income
comprises income of EUR 24 million (2016: EUR 21 million; 2015: EUR 19 million) and depreciation of EUR 22 million (2016: EUR 19

ING Group Annual Report 2017

160

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

million; 2015: EUR 17 million). The remainder of the Other income is mainly impacted by positive results on the sale of loans and
property and increased renegotiations of mortgages.
In 2015, Other income – Other was mainly impacted by positive results on the sale of loans and property, partly offset by nonrecurring charges related to increased prepayments and renegotiations of mortgages.

25 Staff expenses
Staff expenses
2017

2016

2015

3,273

3,224

3,221

Pension costs and other staff-related benefit costs

381

344

275

Social security costs

499

512

514

74

75

76

716

636

634

Salaries

Share-based compensation arrangements
External employees
Education
Other staff costs

76

70

68

183

178

184

5,202

5,039

4,972

Number of employees
Netherlands

Continuing operations - average
number of employees at full time
equivalent basis

Total

2016

20151

2017

2016

20151

2017

2016

20151

13,141

13,660

14,586

38,363

38,283

38,134

51,504

51,943

52,720

Discontinued operations - average
number of employees at full time
equivalent basis
Total average number of
employees at full time equivalent
basis

International

2017

2,652

13,141

13,660

17,238

2,181

38,363

38,283

40,315

4,833

51,504

51,943

57,553

1 Continuing operations - average number of employees includes, on an average basis, employees of the discontinued operations of NN Group as NN Group was
deconsolidated from ING Group at the end of May 2015. Staff expenses for the five months ended 31 May 2015, was included in the Consolidated statement of
profit or loss of ING Group in the line item Net result from discontinued operations. Reference is made to Note 27 ‘Discontinued operations’.

Share-based compensation arrangements include EUR 69 million (2016: EUR 69 million; 2015: EUR 63 million) relating to equity-settled
share-based payment arrangements and EUR 5 million (2016: EUR 6 million; 2015: EUR 13 million) relating to cash-settled share-based
payment arrangements.

Remuneration of senior management, Executive Board and Supervisory Board
Reference is made to Note 49 ‘Related parties’.

Stock option and share plans

ING Groep N.V. has granted option rights on ING Groep N.V. shares and conditional rights on shares to a number of senior executives
(members of the Executive Board, general managers and other officers nominated by the Executive Board), and to a considerable
number of employees of ING Group. The purpose of the option and share schemes, apart from promoting a lasting growth of ING
Group, is to attract, retain and motivate senior executives and staff.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

161

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

ING grants three types of share awards, deferred shares, performance shares and upfront shares, which form part of the variable
remuneration offering via the Long term Sustainably Performance Plan (LSPP). The entitlement to the share awards is granted
conditionally. If the participant remains in employment for an uninterrupted period between the grant date and the vesting date, the
entitlement becomes unconditional, with the exception of the upfront shares which are immediately vested upon grant. In addition to
the employment condition, the performance shares require a performance condition that needs to be satisfied before a vest can
occur. The number of ING shares that would ultimately be vested at the end of a performance period is dependent on ING’s
performance over that period. Upfront and deferred shares awarded to the Management Board members of ING Group (and NN Group
in periods prior to 2015), as well as identified staff, have a retention obligation that must be adhered to upon vesting, a minimum
retention of 12 months applies. ING has the authority to apply a hold back to awarded but unvested shares and a claw-back to vested
shares.
In addition to the LSPP share awards, ING also pays a number of senior employees fixed shares. The number of shares are determined
each month from a cash value that forms part of the employee fixed remuneration. The shares are immediately vested to the
employee, but have a minimum holding requirement of two years before the employee can dispose of the shares. The fixed shares are
not subject to holdback or clawback.
The information presented below on stock options and share plans on ING Groep N.V. shares includes personnel employed by entities
that are presented as continuing operations as well as held for sale and discontinued operations.
In 2017, 54,768 share awards (2016: 61,532; 2015: nil) were granted to the members of the Executive Board of ING Groep N.V., 104,449
share awards (2016: 170,749; 2015: 106,013) were granted to the Management Board Banking. To senior management and other
employees 4,846,903 share awards (2016: 6,590,039; 2015: 6,088,240) were granted.
Every year, the ING Group Executive Board decides whether the option and share schemes are to be continued and, if so, to what
extent. In 2010, the Group Executive Board decided not to continue the option scheme as from 2011. The existing option schemes, up
and until 2010, will be run off in the coming years.
The option rights are valid for a period of ten years. Option rights that are not exercised within this period, lapse. Option rights granted
will remain valid until the expiry date, even if the option scheme is discontinued. The option rights are subject to certain conditions,
including a pre-determined continuous period of service. The exercise prices of the options are the same as the quoted prices of ING
Groep N.V. shares at the date on which the options are granted.
The obligations with regard to the existing stock option plan and the share plans will be funded either by cash or by newly issued
shares at the discretion of ING Group.
Changes in option rights outstanding
Options outstanding
(in numbers)

Weighted average exercise price
(in euros)

2017

2016

2015

2017

2016

2015

Opening balance

25,574,912

37,311,131

52,559,607

15.53

17.54

16.95

Exercised

–2,216,764

–1,583,072

–3,251,420

5.89

5.40

5.97

Forfeited

–168,007

–244,959

–410,847

14.26

16.89

18.05

Expired

–8,048,161

–9,908,188

–11,586,209

24.18

24.67

18.13

Closing balance

15,141,980

25,574,912

37,311,131

12.36

15.53

17.54

As per 31 December 2017, total options outstanding consists of 10,156,219 options (2016: 16,861,694; 2015: 27,657,794) relating to
equity-settled share-based payment arrangements and 4,985,761 options (2016: 8,713,218; 2015: 9,653,337) relating to cash-settled
share-based payment arrangements.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for options exercised during 2017 is EUR 13.81 (2016: EUR 10.43; 2015:
13.62). All option rights are vested.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

162

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Summary of stock options outstanding and exercisable
Options outstanding and exercisable
as at 31 December

Weighted average remaining
contractual life

Weighted average exercise price

2017

2016

2015

2017

2016

2015

2017

2016

2015

5.00

2,294,423

3,086,449

3,817,765

1.21

2.21

3.22

2.88

2.88

2.89

5.00 – 10.00

3,754,542

5,248,657

6,213,999

2.21

3.21

4.21

7.38

7.37

7.37

10.00 – 15.00

110,086

137,706

139,841

0.71

1.71

2.72

14.35

14.35

14.35

15.00 – 20.00

8,982,929

9,460,529 10,061,265

0.21

16.84

Range of exercise price in euros

0.00 –

1.21

2.21

16.83

16.87

20.00 – 25.00

7,295,027

7,608,639

0.23

1.24

24.62

24.62

25.00 – 30.00

346,544

9,469,622

0.38

0.30

25.42

25.17

15,141,980 25,574,912 37,311,131

All options outstanding are exercisable. As at 31 December 2017, the aggregate intrinsic value of options outstanding and exercisable
is EUR 59 million (2016: EUR 64 million; 2015: EUR 68 million).
Cash received from stock option exercises for the year ended 31 December 2017 is EUR 10 million (2016: EUR 7 million; 2015: EUR 16
million).
Changes in share awards
Share awards
(in numbers)

Weighted average grant date fair value
(in euros)

2017

2016

2015

2017

2016

Opening balance

8,382,963

8,737,014

12,706,264

10.44

10.04

7.37

Granted

5,006,120

6,822,320

6,194,253

13.20

10.20

13.00

Performance effect
Vested
Forfeited
Closing balance

2015

379,934

543,891

453,699

10.47

8.68

6.40

–6,328,318

–7,569,972

–10,374,131

11.40

9.65

8.38

–218,420

–150,290

–243,071

10.83

10.58

8.91

7,222,279

8,382,963

8,737,014

11.46

10.44

10.04

As at 31 December 2017 the share awards consists of 6,416,705 share awards (2016: 7,294,633; 2015: 7,485,634) relating to equitysettled share-based payment arrangements and 805,574 share awards (2016: 1,088,330; 2015: 1,251,380) relating to cash-settled
share-based payment arrangements.
The fair value of share awards granted is recognised as an expense under Staff expenses and is allocated over the vesting period of the
share awards. As of 2015, ING Group no longer has share awards containing a market based performance condition. Previously, the
fair values of share awards containing a market based performance condition have been determined using a Monte Carlo simulation
based valuation model. The model takes into account the risk free interest rate, the current stock prices, expected volatilities and
current dividend yields of the performance peer group used to determine ING’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) ranking.
As at 31 December 2017, total unrecognised compensation costs related to share awards amount to EUR 37 million (2016: EUR 41
million; 2015: EUR 45 million). These costs are expected to be recognised over a weighted average period of 1.4 years (2016: 1.4 years;
2015: 1.4 years).

ING Group Annual Report 2017

163

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

26 Other operating expenses
Other operating expenses
IT related

expenses1

2017

2016

2015

737

740

753

Office expenses

587

580

618

Advertising and public relations

455

404

418

Travel and accommodation expenses

178

169

166

External advisory fees

353

320

246

Audit and non-audit services

22

19

18

Postal charges

50

48

56

Depreciation of property and equipment

319

330

327

Amortisation of intangible assets

179

187

270

18

107

27

901

845

620
165

Impairments and reversals on property and equipment and intangibles
Regulatory costs
Addition/(unused amounts reversed) of provision for reorganisations and relocations
Addition/(unused amounts reversed) of other provisions
Contributions and subscriptions
Other

–5

1,189

167

213

7

91

82

68

575

342

595

4,627

5,575

4,354

1 Computer costs is renamed to IT related expenses

Other operating expenses include lease and sublease payments in respect of operating leases of EUR 307 million (2016: EUR 310
million; 2015: EUR 281 million) in which ING Group is the lessee. No individual operating lease has terms and conditions that
significantly affect the amount, timing and certainty of the consolidated cash flows of the Group.

Audit and non-audit services

Total audit and non-audit services include the following fees for services provided by the Group’s auditor.
Fees of Group’s auditor
Audit fees
Audit related fees

2017

2016

2015

18

15

16

1

1

1

19

16

18

Tax fees

1

Total1

1 The Group auditors did not provide any non-audit services except tax services in 2015. In 2016 and 2017 no non-audit services were provided.

Fees as disclosed in the table above relate to the network of the Group’s auditors and are the amounts related to the respective years,
i.e. on an accrual basis. The amounts exclude Group’s auditors fees for entities presented as held for sale and discontinued operations.
Increase in audit fees in 2017 primarily relates to audit activities for the implementation of IFRS 9.

Regulatory costs

Regulatory costs represent contributions to the Deposit Guarantee Schemes (DGS), The Single Resolution Fund (SRF) and local bank
taxes. As of 1 January 2016, the new ex-ante DGS in the Netherlands and the SRF came into effect resulting in increased Regulatory
costs for the period. Included in Regulatory costs for 2017, are contributions to DGS of EUR 341 million (2016: EUR 316 million; 2015:
EUR 233 million) mainly related to the Netherlands, Germany, Belgium, Poland, and Spain and contributions to the SRF of EUR 179
million (2016: EUR 176 million; 2015: EUR 143 million) related to National Resolution Funds.
In 2017 local bank taxes increased by EUR 30 million from EUR 351 million to EUR 381 million mainly due to a the full year Polish bank
tax and higher taxes in the UK.

Addition/(unused amounts reversed) of provision for reorganisations and relocations

For Addition/(unused amounts reversed) on provision for reorganisations and relocations, reference is made to the disclosure on the
reorganisation provision in Note 14 ‘Provisions’.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

164

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Tangible and Intangible impairments and reversals
Impairments and reversals of property and equipment and intangibles
Impairment losses

Property and equipment
Property development

Reversals of impairments

Total

2017

2016

2015

2017

2016

2015

2017

2016

2015

10

65

17

–24

–5

–14

–14

60

3

2

3

9

2

3

9

Software and other intangible
assets

30

44

15

(Reversals of) other impairments

42

112

41

–24

–5

–14

30

44

15

18

107

27

In 2017, impairment losses on software and intangible assets mainly include software that was impaired to is Value in Use, related to
the acceleration of the Think Forward Strategy.
In 2017, reversals of impairments on property and equipment, mainly include impairments on property in own use that were reversed
following the sale of office buildings.

Other

Included in Other operating expenses – Other in 2017, is a net charge for the provision recognised in relation to floating interest rate
derivatives that were sold in the Netherlands. Also included in this line, is a charge related to the provision recognised for
reimbursement of expenses associated to the formalization of mortgages at ING Spain and a charge related to the provision
recognised for a discontinued business in ING Luxembourg. Reference is made to Note 14 ‘Provisions’ and Note 45 ‘Legal proceedings’.
Other operating expenses – Other in 2016 included a EUR 116 million one-off procured cost savings in Belgium.

27 Discontinued operations

Total net result from discontinued operations comprises the results from NN Group and Voya.
Total net result from discontinued operations
2017

2016

2015

–

–

793

–

–

3

441

–1,241

441

–918

441

–445

441

–122

NN Group

793

Net result from discontinued operations
NN Group

3

Net result from classification as discontinued operations
NN Group
Voya

323

Net result from disposal of discontinued operations1

–

NN Group
Voya

323

Total net result from discontinued operations (before non-controlling interests)

–

1 The tax effect on the result on disposal of discontinued operations in 2016 is EUR 2 million (2015: nil).

Net result from discontinued operations

Net result from discontinued operations comprises the total net result (after tax) of the businesses classified as discontinued
operations and is presented separately in the statement of profit or loss.
In 2015, the statement of profit or loss of ING Group included, in the line Net result from discontinued operations, the net result of NN
Group until deconsolidation at the end of May 2015 and a dividend of EUR 59 million received from NN Group.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

165

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Net result from discontinued operations
2017

2016

Total income

20151

6,815

Total expenses

5,879

Result before tax from discontinued operations

–

–

936

–

–

793

Taxation

143

Net result from discontinued operations
1 NN Group.

Total comprehensive income for NN Group until deconsolidation at the end of May 2015 comprised EUR 1,718 million (attributable to
equity holders of ING: EUR 941 million and to non-controlling interests: EUR 777 million). ING Group’s interest in NN Group was 54.77%
until deconsolidation at the end of May 2015.

Net result from classification as discontinued operations

In 2015, Net result from classification as discontinued operations comprised the impact on the statement of profit or loss of the
change in non-current non-financial assets of NN Group presented as assets and liabilities held for sale, prior to deconsolidation at the
end of May 2015.

Net result from disposal of discontinued operations

In 2015, Net result from disposal of discontinued operations included mainly a profit of EUR 323 million on the sale of the last Voya
shares in March 2015 to reduce ING Group’s stake in Voya from 18.9% to zero, a loss of EUR 1,224 million as a result of the further sale
and deconsolidation of NN Group at the end of May 2015 and a loss of EUR 15 million on the further divestments of ING Group’s
interest in NN Group in September 2015.
In 2016, ING Group sold its remaining shares in NN Group resulting in a net profit of EUR 448 million which is recognised in the
statement of profit or loss in the line Net result from disposal of discontinued operations. Also included in this line, are deferred losses
related to former insurance activities.

January 2016 – Loss of significant influence over NN Group

On 5 January 2016, ING sold a further 33 million ordinary shares of NN Group. As part of the transaction, NN Group repurchased 8
million ordinary shares. The gross proceeds to ING Group from the offering, including the repurchase by NN Group, amounted to EUR 1
billion. The transaction reduced the ownership of ING in NN Group from 25.75% (as at 31 December 2015) to 16.22%. As a result of the
transaction, together with ING Group no longer having any nominees on NN Group’s Supervisory Board as of 14 December 2015,
ING Group no longer had significant influence over NN Group and accounted for its remaining stake in NN Group as an available-forsale investment. The sale transaction, together with the revaluation of the remaining stake, resulted in a net profit of EUR 522 million
and is recognised in the statement of profit or loss in the line ‘Net result from disposal of discontinued operations’.

February 2016 – Final tranche exchange of subordinated notes: Anchor investors

On 2 February 2016, ING settled the exchange of the third and final tranche of EUR 337.5 million mandatory exchangeable
subordinated notes which were issued in 2014 as part of the Anchor investment in NN Group. EUR 210 million of the notes were
exchanged into 6.9 million NN Group ordinary shares with the three Anchor investors. EUR 128 million of notes were settled in cash
with RRJ Capital. This transaction reduced ING’s remaining stake in NN Group from 16.22% to 14.09%. The transaction did not have a
material impact on the shareholders’ equity or the statement of profit or loss of ING Group.

April 2016 – Divestment of remaining shareholding in NN Group

On 14 April 2016, ING Group sold its remaining shares in NN Group. The transaction involved the sale of 45.7 million ordinary shares of
NN Group at gross proceeds of EUR 1,406 million and resulted in a net loss of EUR 66 million which is recognised in the statement of
profit or loss, in the line ‘Net result from disposal of discontinued operations’.
Reference is made to Note 46 ‘Consolidated companies and businesses acquired and divested’.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

166

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Net cash flows from discontinued operations

The table below represents the net cash flows from businesses classified as discontinued operations, as included in the Consolidated
statement of cash flows, until deconsolidation of the respective businesses:
Net cash flows from discontinued operations
2017

2016

20151

Operating cash flow

–1,409

Investing cash flow

2,619

Financing cash flow

526

Net cash flow

–

-

1,736

1 NN Group.

28 Earnings per ordinary share
Earnings per ordinary share
Amount
(in EUR million)

Basic earnings

Per ordinary share
(in EUR)

2017

2016

2015

2017

2016

2015

2017

2016

2015

4,905

4,651

4,010

3,882.8

3,875.0

3,864.8

1.26

1.20

1.04

441

–456

0.11

–0.12

4,210

4,466

1.26

1.09

1.16

1.26

1.20

1.03

0.11

–0.12

1.09

1.15

Basic earnings from discontinued
operations
Basic earnings from continuing
operations

Weighted average number of
ordinary shares outstanding
during the period
(in millions)

4,905

Effect of dilutive instruments:
Stock option and share plans

Diluted earnings

4,905

Diluted earnings from discontinued
operations
Diluted earnings from continuing
operations

4,905

4,651

4,010

441

–456

4,210

4,466

Dilutive instruments

2.8

3.5

5.5

2.8

3.5

5.5

3,885.6

3,878.5

3,870.3

1.26

Diluted earnings per share is calculated as if the stock options and share plans outstanding at the end of the period had been
exercised at the beginning of the period and assuming that the cash received from exercised stock options and share plans is used to
buy own shares against the average market price during the period. The net increase in the number of shares resulting from exercising
stock options and share plans is added to the average number of shares used for the calculation of diluted earnings per share.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

167

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

29 Dividend per ordinary share
Dividends to shareholders of the parent
Per
ordinary
share
(in EUR)

Total
(in EUR
million)

Dividends on ordinary shares:
In respect of 2015
– Interim dividend, paid in cash in August 2015

0.24

929

– Final dividend, paid in cash in May 2016

0.41

1,590

Total dividend in respect of 2015

0.65

2,519

In respect of 2016
– Interim dividend, paid in cash in August 2016

0.24

931

– Final dividend

0.42

1,629

Total dividend in respect of 2016

0.66

2,560

In respect of 2017
– Interim dividend, paid in cash in August 2017

0.24

933

– Final dividend

0.43

1,670

Total dividend in respect of 2017

0.67

2,603

ING Groep N.V. is required to withhold tax of 15% on dividends paid.

Notes to the consolidated statement of cash flows
30 Net cash flow from investing activities

Information on the impact of companies acquired or disposed is presented in Note 46 ‘Consolidated companies and businesses
acquired and divested’.

31 Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities
Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities
2016

Non cash changes

Cash Flows
Redemption
Additions s / Disposals

Debt securities in issue

Aquisitions

Amortisation

Other
Changes

Changes
in FV

–40

–915

–4,946

96,086

–94

–1,195

15,968

–1,009

–6,141

112,054

2017

2016

2015

391

512

363

–3,403

–2,492

–1,442

103,234

95,458

–96,837

132

Subordinated Loans

17,223

2,331

–2,343

46

Total Liabilities from
financing activities

120,457

97,789

–99,180

–

2017

Foreign
exchange
movement

178

–40

32 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents
Treasury bills and other eligible bills
Deposits from banks/Loans and advances to banks
Cash and balances with central banks

21,989

18,144

21,458

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

18,977

16,164

20,379

ING Group Annual Report 2017

168

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Treasury bills and other eligible bills included in cash and cash equivalents
Treasury bills and other eligible bills included in trading assets
Treasury bills and other eligible bills included in available-for-sale investments

2017

2016

2015

5

126

228

386

386

135

391

512

363

2017

2016

2015

–8,563

–9,809

–10,312

5,160

7,317

8,870

–3,403

–2,492

–1,442

–28,258

–22,155

–23,501

23,651

21,541

21,118

–4,607

–614

–2,383

–36,821

–31,964

–33,813

28,811

28,858

29,988

–8,010

–3,106

–3,825

Deposits from banks/Loans and advances to banks
Included in cash and cash equivalents:
– deposits from banks
– loans and advances to banks
Not included in cash and cash equivalents:
– deposits from banks
– loans and advances to banks
Total as included in the statement of financial position:
– deposits from banks
– loans and advances to banks

Cash and cash equivalents includes deposits from banks and loans and advances to banks that are on demand.
Included in Cash and cash equivalents, are minimum mandatory reserve deposits to be held with various central banks. Reference is
made to Note 41 ‘Assets not freely disposable’ for restrictions on Cash and balances with central banks.
ING Group’s risk management (including liquidity) is explained in the section ‘Risk management – Funding and liquidity risk’.

Segment reporting
33 Segments
a. General

ING Group’s segments are based on the internal reporting structures by lines of business.
The Executive Board of ING Group and the Management Board Banking set the performance targets, approve and monitor the budgets
prepared by the business lines. Business lines formulate strategic, commercial, and financial policy in conformity with the strategy and
performance targets set by the Executive Board of ING Group and the Management Board Banking.
Recognition and measurement of segment results are in line with the accounting policies as described in Note 1 ‘Accounting policies’.
Corporate expenses are allocated to business lines based on time spent by head office personnel, the relative number of staff, or on
the basis of income, expenses and/or assets of the segment.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

169

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

The following table specifies the segments by line of business and the main sources of income of each of the segments:
Specification of the main sources of income of each of the segments by line of business
Segments of the Banking results by line of business

Main source of income

Retail Netherlands
(Market Leaders)

Income from retail and private banking activities in the Netherlands, including
the SME and mid-corporate segments. The main products offered are current
and savings accounts, business lending, mortgages and other consumer lending
in the Netherlands.

Retail Belgium
(Market Leaders)

Income from retail and private banking activities in Belgium (including
Luxembourg), including the SME and mid-corporate segments. The main
products offered are similar to those in the Netherlands.

Retail Germany
(Challengers and Growth Markets)

Income from retail and private banking activities in Germany (including Austria).
The main products offered are current and savings accounts, mortgages and
other customer lending.

Retail Other
(Challengers and Growth Markets)

Income from retail banking activities in the rest of the world, including the SME
and mid-corporate segments in specific countries. The main products offered
are similar to those in the Netherlands.

Wholesale Banking

Income from wholesale banking activities (a full range of products is offered
from cash management to corporate finance), real estate and lease.

The geographical segments for the Banking results are presented on page 175.
Specification of geographical segments
Geographical segments

Main countries

The Netherlands
Belgium

Including Luxembourg

Germany

Including Austria

Other Challengers

Australia, France, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Czech Republic and UK Legacy run-off
portfolio

Growth Markets

Poland, Romania, Turkey and Asian bank stakes

Wholesale Banking Rest of World

UK, Americas, Asia and other countries in Central and Eastern Europe

Other

Corporate Line Banking and the run-off portfolio of Real Estate

ING Group evaluates the results of its banking segments using a financial performance measure called underlying result. Underlying
result is used to monitor the performance of ING Group at a consolidated level and by segment. The Executive Board and Management
Board Banking consider this measure to be relevant to an understanding of the Group’s financial performance, because it allows
investors to understand the primary method used by management to evaluate the Group’s operating performance and make
decisions about allocating resources. In addition, ING Group believes that the presentation of underlying net result helps investors
compare its segment performance on a meaningful basis by highlighting result before tax attributable to ongoing operations and the
underlying profitability of the segment businesses. Underlying result is derived by excluding from IFRS the following: special items; the
impact of divestments and Legacy Insurance.
Special items include items of income or expense that are significant and arise from events or transactions that are clearly distinct
from the regular operating activities. Disclosures on comparative periods also reflect the impact of divestments. Legacy Insurance
consists of the results from discontinued operations and the results from Insurance Other. Insurance Other reflects (former) insurance
related activities that are not part of the discontinued operations.
ING Group reconciles the total segment results to the total result of Banking using Corporate Line Banking. The Corporate Line Banking
is a reflection of capital management activities and certain expenses that are not allocated to the banking businesses. The Corporate
Line Banking includes the isolated legacy costs (mainly negative interest results) caused by the replacement of short-term funding
with long-term funding during 2012 and 2013. ING Group applies a system of capital charging for its banking operations in order to
create a comparable basis for the results of business units globally, irrespective of the business units’ book equity and the currency
they operate in.
Underlying result as presented below is a non-GAAP financial measure and is not a measure of financial performance under IFRS.
Because underlying result is not determined in accordance with IFRS, underlying result as presented by ING may not be comparable to
other similarly titled measures of performance of other companies. The underlying result of ING’s segments is reconciled to the Net
result as reported in the IFRS Consolidated statement of profit or loss below. The information presented in this note is in line with the
information presented to the Executive Board of ING Group and Management Board Banking.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

170

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

This note does not provide information on the revenue specified to each product or service as this is not reported internally and is
therefore not readily available.

b. ING Group
Reconciliation between IFRS and Underlying income, expenses and net result
2017

Income

Expenses

NonControlling
Taxation
interests

Net result1

Net result IFRS attributable to equity holder of the parent

4,905

Net result IFRS from continuing operations

17,773

10,505

2,281

82

4,905

Remove impact of:
Special items2
Insurance Other3
Underlying4

–121

–121

0

53

1

52

17,704

10,505

2,160

82

4,957

1 Net result, after tax and non-controlling interests.
2 Special items in 2017, comprise a tax charge at ING Australia Holdings Ltd related to the years 2007-2013, for which a full reimbursement is expected to be
received from NN Group.
3 Insurance Other comprises mainly the net result relating to warrants on the shares of Voya Financial and NN Group N.V.
4 Underlying figures are derived from figures according to IFRS by excluding the impact from divestments, special items, Insurance Other, and discontinued
operations.

ING Group Total
2017

ING
Bank N.V.

Other
Banking1

Total
Banking

Legacy
Insurance

13,782

–68

13,714

13,714

2,714

2,714

Total

Underlying income
– Net interest income
– Net commission income

2,714

– Total investment and other income

1,259

17

1,277

1,277

17,755

–51

17,704

17,704

9,795

34

9,829

9,829

Total underlying income
Underlying expenditure
– Operating expenses
– Additions to loan loss provision

676

Total underlying expenses

676

676

10,472

34

10,505

10,505

Underlying result before taxation

7,283

–84

7,199

7,199

Taxation

2,182

–22

2,160

2,160

Non-controlling interests

82

Underlying net result

5,019

–62

82

82

4,957

4,957

0

0

Divestments
Special items

0

Insurance Other

–52

–52

Net result IFRS (continuing operations)

5,019

–62

4,957

–52

4,905

Net result IFRS attributable to equity holder of the parent

5,019

–62

4,957

–52

4,905

1 Comprises for the most part the funding charges of ING Groep N.V. (Holding).

ING Group Annual Report 2017

171

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Reconciliation between IFRS and Underlying income, expenses and net result
2016

Income

Expenses

Taxation

NonControlling
interests

Net result IFRS attributable to equity holder of the parent

Net result1
4,651

Net result from discontinued operations

–441

Net result IFRS from continuing operations

17,491

11,588

1,618

–1,157

358

10,430

1,977

75

4,210

Remove impact of:
Special items2
Insurance Other3

799

–33

Underlying4

17,458

–33
75

4,976

1 Net result, after tax and non-controlling interests.
2 Special items in 2016 primarily comprise restructuring charges and impairments related to the intended digital transformation programmes as announced in
October 2016.
3 Insurance Other comprises mainly the net result relating to warrants on the shares of Voya Financial and NN Group N.V.
4 Underlying figures are derived from figures according to IFRS by excluding the impact from divestments, special items, Insurance Other, and discontinued
operations.

ING Group Total
2016

ING
Bank N.V.

Other
Banking1

Total
Banking

Legacy
Insurance

13,317

–76

13,241

13,241

2,433

2,433

Total

Underlying income
– Net interest income
– Net commission income

2,434

– Total investment and other income

1,763

21

1,785

1,785

17,514

–56

17,458

17,458

9,445

11

9,456

9,456

974

974

10,419

11

10,430

10,430

Underlying result before taxation

7,095

–67

7,028

7,028

Taxation

1,993

–17

1,977

1,977

Total underlying income
Underlying expenditure
– Operating expenses
– Additions to loan loss provision

974

Total underlying expenses

Non-controlling interests

75

Underlying net result

5,026

–50

75

75

4,976

4,976

Divestments
Special items

–799

–799

Insurance Other
Net result IFRS (continuing operations)

–50

4,177

33
441

441

4,227

–50

4,177

474

4,651

1 Comprises for the most part the funding charges of ING Groep N.V. (Holding).

For information on discontinued operations, reference is made to Note 27 ‘Discontinued operations’.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

172

33
4,210

4,227

Total net result from discontinued operations NN Group
Net result IFRS attributable to equity holder of the parent

–799
33

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Reconciliation between IFRS and Underlying income, expenses and net result
2015

Income

Expenses

NonControlling
Taxation
interests

Net result1

Net result IFRS attributable to equity holder of the parent

4,010

Net result from discontinued operations

456

Net result IFRS from continuing operations

16,845

10,673

1,637

70

4,466

–77

19

28

1

7

45

–4

5

2

42

16,552

10,593

1,668

72

4,219

Remove impact of:
Divestments2

–367

Special items3
Intercompany eliminations between ING Bank and NN

Group4

Insurance Other5
Underlying6
1
2
3
4
5
6

–367
58
20

Net result, after tax and non-controlling interests.
Divestments in 2015 reflected the result from the merger between ING Vysya and Kotak Mahindra Bank.
Special items in 2015 comprised additional charges related to previously announced restructuring programmes in Retail Netherlands.
Intercompany eliminations between ING Bank and NN Group, prior to deconsolidation at the end of May 2015.
Insurance Other comprised mainly the net result relating to warrants on the shares of Voya Financial and NN Group N.V.
Underlying figures are derived from figures according to IFRS by excluding the impact from divestments, special items, Insurance Other, and discontinued
operations.

ING Group Total
2015

ING
Bank N.V.

Other
Banking1

Total
Banking

Legacy
Insurance

12,744

–154

12,590

12,590

2,320

2,320

Total

Underlying income
– Net interest income
– Net commission income

2,320

– Total investment and other income

1,639

3

1,642

1,642

16,703

–151

16,552

16,552

– Operating expenses

9,231

15

9,246

9,246

– Additions to loan loss provision

1,347

Total underlying income
Underlying expenditure

Total underlying expenses

1,347

1,347

10,578

15

10,593

10,593

Underlying result before taxation

6,125

–166

5,959

5,959

Taxation

1,703

–35

1,668

1,668

Non-controlling interests

72

Underlying net result

4,350

–131

72

72

4,219

4,219
367

Divestments

367

367

Special items

–58

–58

Intercompany eliminations between ING Bank and NN Group
Insurance Other
Net result IFRS (continuing operations)

4,659

–131

4,528

Total net result from discontinued operations NN Group
Total net result from discontinued operations Voya
Net result IFRS attributable to equity holder of the parent

4,659

–131

1 Comprised for the most part the funding charges of ING Groep N.V. (Holding).

For information on discontinued operations, reference is made to Note 27 ‘Discontinued operations’.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

–58
–20

173

4,528

–20

–42

–42

–63

4,466

–779

–779

323

323

–518

4,010

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

c. Banking activities
Segments Banking by line of business
2017

Retail
Netherlands

Retail
Belgium

Retail
Germany

Retail
Other

Wholesale
Banking

Corporate
Line
Banking

Total
Banking

Underlying income
– Net interest income

3,610

1,842

1,704

2,437

3,895

226

13,714

– Net commission income

601

408

215

384

1,108

–3

2,714

– Total investment and other income

257

224

–28

207

919

–301

1,277

4,468

2,473

1,891

3,028

5,922

–78

17,704

2,212

1,584

1,032

1,919

2,792

290

9,829

13

104

–10

284

284

1

676

Total underlying expenses

2,224

1,688

1,022

2,203

3,076

291

10,505

Underlying result before taxation

2,243

785

869

825

2,846

–369

7,199

566

296

241

188

881

–13

2,160

–2

2

67

15

1,678

491

625

569

1,950

–356

4,957

0

0

1,678

491

625

569

1,950

–356

4,957

Retail
Netherlands

Retail
Belgium

Retail
Germany

Retail
Other

Wholesale
Banking

Corporate
Line
Banking

Total
Banking

Total underlying income
Underlying expenditure
– Operating expenses
– Additions to loan loss provision

Taxation
Non-controlling interests
Underlying net result
Special items
Net result IFRS

82

Segments Banking by line of business
2016

Underlying income
– Net interest income

3,653

1,936

1,689

2,107

3,750

106

13,241

– Net commission income

546

385

183

320

1,003

–3

2,433

– Total investment and other income

237

253

51

432

855

–44

1,785

4,436

2,573

1,923

2,859

5,608

59

17,458

2,560

1,438

886

1,723

2,572

278

9,456

171

175

–18

278

368

Total underlying expenses

2,731

1,613

868

2,001

2,940

278

10,430

Underlying result before taxation

1,705

961

1,055

858

2,668

–219

7,028

422

306

315

178

753

2

1,977

1

2

60

11

1,282

653

738

620

1,903

–221

4,976

–192

–418

–12

–149

–27

–799

1,090

235

738

608

1,754

–248

4,177

Total underlying income
Underlying expenditure
– Operating expenses
– Additions to loan loss provision

Taxation
Non-controlling interests
Underlying net result
Special items
Net result IFRS

ING Group Annual Report 2017

174

974

75

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Segments Banking by line of business
2015

Retail
Netherlands

Retail
Belgium

Retail
Germany

Retail
Other

Wholesale
Banking

Corporate
Line
Banking

Total
Banking

Underlying income
– Net interest income

3,683

1,953

1,634

1,935

3,538

–153

12,590

– Net commission income

515

397

172

278

962

–4

2,320

– Total investment and other income

205

195

104

195

1,070

–127

1,642

4,403

2,546

1,910

2,408

5,570

–285

16,552

2,475

1,532

842

1,594

2,559

245

9,246

433

169

57

210

478

Total underlying expenses

2,908

1,701

899

1,804

3,036

245

10,593

Underlying result before taxation

1,495

845

1,012

604

2,533

–530

5,959

391

255

328

142

676

–125

1,668

6

2

48

16

583

681

414

1,841

–404

4,219

Total underlying income
Underlying expenditure
– Operating expenses
– Additions to loan loss provision

Taxation
Non-controlling interests
Underlying net result

1,104

Divestments

1,347

72

367

Special items

367

–58

Net result IFRS

1,046

–58
583

681

781

1,841

–404

4,528

Growth
Markets

Wholesale
Banking
Rest of
World

Other

Total
Banking

Geographical segments Banking

2017

Netherlands

Belgium

Germany

Other
Challengers

Underlying income
– Net interest income

4,537

2,099

2,172

1,527

1,515

1,636

227

13,714

– Net commission income

871

519

269

232

316

509

–3

2,714

– Total investment and other income

445

480

–17

22

296

245

–193

1,277

5,853

3,098

2,424

1,781

2,127

2,390

31

17,704

2,930

2,063

1,154

1,142

1,126

1,113

301

9,829

3

160

–15

201

241

85

1

676

Total underlying expenses

2,933

2,223

1,140

1,344

1,367

1,198

301

10,505

Underlying result before taxation

2,920

876

1,285

437

760

1,192

–270

7,199

708

369

407

145

151

379

–1

2,160

–2

2

2,212

508

875

292

527

813

–269

4,957

0

0

2,212

508

875

292

527

813

–269

4,957

Total underlying income
Underlying expenditure
– Operating expenses
– Additions to loan loss provision

Taxation
Non-controlling interests
Underlying net result

82

82

Special items
Net result IFRS

ING Group Annual Report 2017

175

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Geographical segments Banking
Growth
Markets

Wholesale
Banking
Rest of
World

Other

Total
Banking

107

13,241
2,433

Netherlands

Belgium

Germany

Other
Challengers

4,699

2,183

2,025

1,373

1,274

1,579

– Net commission income

779

482

241

171

309

452

–2

– Total investment and other income

367

559

75

133

460

202

–12

1,785

5,845

3,225

2,340

1,677

2,043

2,233

94

17,458

3,301

1,796

987

951

1,103

1,029

290

9,456

310

215

–13

120

240

103

Total underlying expenses

3,610

2,010

973

1,071

1,343

1,132

290

10,430

Underlying result before taxation

2,235

1,215

1,367

607

700

1,101

–197

7,028

555

353

426

173

125

335

10

1,977

1

2

1,680

860

939

433

504

766

–207

4,976

–268

–491

–27

–799

1,412

369

939

420

504

766

–234

4,177

Growth
Markets

Wholesale
Banking
Rest of
World

Other

Total
Banking

2016

Underlying income
– Net interest income

Total underlying income
Underlying expenditure
– Operating expenses
– Additions to loan loss provision

Taxation
Non-controlling interests
Underlying net result
Special items
Net result IFRS

974

71

75

–13

Geographical segments Banking

2015

Netherlands

Belgium

Germany

Other
Challengers

Underlying income
– Net interest income

4,677

2,287

1,812

1,268

1,147

1,551

–153

12,590

– Net commission income

754

497

215

156

267

435

–4

2,320

– Total investment and other income

187

434

120

25

330

580

–33

1,642

5,619

3,217

2,146

1,449

1,743

2,566

–189

16,552

3,220

1,943

917

840

1,061

1,003

262

9,246

654

166

77

99

176

175

Total underlying expenses

3,875

2,109

994

938

1,237

1,178

262

10,593

Underlying result before taxation

1,744

1,108

1,152

511

506

1,388

–451

5,959

469

315

382

174

79

367

–117

1,668

6

2

787

768

1,021

–334

4,219

Total underlying income
Underlying expenditure
– Operating expenses
– Additions to loan loss provision

Taxation
Non-controlling interests
Underlying net result

1,276

64
337

Divestments
Special items
Net result IFRS

1,347

363

72

367

367

–58
1,218

–58
787

768

337

730

1,021

–334

4,528

IFRS statements of financial position by segment are not reported internally to, and not managed by, the chief operating decision
maker.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

176

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

34 Information on geographical areas

ING Group’s business lines operate in seven main geographical areas: the Netherlands, Belgium, Rest of Europe, North America, Latin
America, Asia and Australia. A geographical area is a distinguishable component of the Group engaged in providing products or
services within a particular economic environment that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of geographical
areas operating in other economic environments. The geographical analyses are based on the location of the office from which the
transactions are originated. The Netherlands is ING Group’s country of domicile.
The tables below provide additional information, for the years 2017, 2016 and 2015 respectively, on names of principal subsidiaries
and branches, nature of main activities and average number of employees on a full time equivalent basis by country/tax jurisdiction.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

177

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Additional information by country
2017
Name of principal
subsidiary

Average
number of
employees
at full time
equivalent
basis

Total
Income

Total
assets

Result
before
tax Taxation

Geographical
area

Country/Tax
jurisdiction

The
Netherlands

The
ING Bank N.V.
Netherlands

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

13,141

5,757

241,379

2,301

639

Belgium

Belgium

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

8,893

2,957

119,400

1,009

408

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

777

298

14,748

68

27

ING Bank Slaski S.A.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

8,664

1,119

29,976

444

112

Germany

ING DiBa A.G.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

4,587

2,312

138,153

1,240

396

Romania

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

1,968

314

5,940

135

23

Spain

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

1,135

509

23,858

97

25

Italy

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

838

336

16,728

–4

7

UK

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

603

550

78,573

324

76

France1

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

591

310

10,678

93

32

Russia

ING Bank (Eurasia) Z.A.O. Wholesale banking

270

136

1,607

78

20

Czech
Republic

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

245

66

5,641

16

3

Hungary

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

146

32

1,003

–

2

Slovakia

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

497

14

677

2

1

Ukraine

PJSC ING Bank Ukraine

Wholesale banking

106

30

321

9

2

Austria

Branch of ING DiBa A.G.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

225

80

682

25

–1

Bulgaria

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

70

9

268

–2

–

Ireland

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

43

57

2,337

47

6

Portugal

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

11

14

667

9

3

Switzerland Branch of ING België N.V. Wholesale banking

204

224

9,737

145

38

–

–

2

–

–

564

724

42,873

371

134

78

47

1,184

16

4

2

1

2

–

–

8

1

2

–2

ING België N.V.

Luxembourg ING Luxembourg S.A.
Rest of Europe Poland

Belgian Overseas
Agencies Ltd.

Wholesale banking

ING Financial Holdings
Corp.

Wholesale banking

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

Colombia

ING Capital Colombia
S.A.S.

Wholesale banking

Mexico

ING Consulting, S.A. de C.V.Wholesale banking

China

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

81

35

2,298

7

–2

Japan

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

35

33

2,238

17

11

Singapore

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

512

297

25,803

133

9

Hong Kong

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

108

94

7,850

55

7

Philippines

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

604

18

322

6

2

South Korea Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

82

55

4,602

21

6

Taiwan

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

33

23

3,910

11

–

Indonesia

PT ING Securities
Indonesia

Wholesale banking

5

1

6

–

–

Malaysia

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

5

–

29

–1

–

India

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

–

1

2

1

–

Turkey

ING Bank A.S.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

5,221

741

13,798

267

54

North America Canada
USA
Latin America Brazil

Asia

Main activity

United Arab Branch of ING Bank N.V.
Emirates

Wholesale banking

Australia

Australia

ING Bank (Australia) Ltd.

Retail banking

Other

Mauritius

ING Mauritius Ltd.

Investment management

Total
1 Public subsidies received, as defined in article 89 of the CRD IV, amounts to EUR 0.5 million.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

178

10

–

–

–2

–

1,143

577

37,982

330

235

–

1

939

–

–

51,504

17,773

846,216

7,268

2,281

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Australia has a very high tax charge due to a tax charge at ING Australia Holdings Ltd related to the years 2007-2013, for which a
full reimbursement is expected to be received from NN Group. Although the impact on net result was nil, this special item
affected both the tax and ‘other income’ line in the Consolidated statement of profit or loss.
Due to the tax reforms in the US and Belgium, which resulted in a tax charge to record a reduction in deferred tax assets, the tax
charge is significantly higher.
Austria, China, Singapore and Taiwan all have lower tax charges due to prior year adjustments.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

179

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Additional information by country
2016
Geographical
area

Country/Tax
jurisdiction

Name of principal
subsidiary

The
Netherlands

The
ING Bank N.V.
Netherlands

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

Belgium

Belgium

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

ING België N.V.

Luxembourg ING Luxembourg S.A.

Total
Income

13,660

5,767

295,120

1,341

343

9,348

3,154

131,431

554

143
32

Total
assets

Result
before
tax Taxation

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

793

274

10,783

138

ING Bank Slaski S.A.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

8,735

992

26,581

379

90

Germany

ING DiBa A.G.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

4,341

2,212

134,902

1,282

407

Romania

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

1,806

288

5,456

123

21

Spain

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

1,116

498

23,309

197

51

Italy

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

833

376

15,920

100

33

UK

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

599

504

29,830

290

154

France1

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

613

280

8,614

56

18

Russia

ING Bank (Eurasia) Z.A.O. Wholesale banking

276

118

2,008

69

7

Czech
Republic

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

220

74

3,653

37

7

Hungary

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

152

37

1,358

–1

3

Slovakia

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

400

14

715

3

1

Ukraine

PJSC ING Bank Ukraine

Wholesale banking

111

59

622

47

7

Austria

Branch of ING DiBa A.G.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

196

86

360

37

–4

Bulgaria

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

76

9

274

–

–

Ireland

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

42

53

1,910

54

7

Portugal

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

11

14

642

10

3

Switzerland Branch of ING België N.V. Wholesale banking

192

187

9,150

122

33

–

–

1

–

–

519

732

42,571

377

110

70

43

2,097

13

–

2

–

1

–

–

7

1

2

–1

–

72

36

2,049

7

–2

Rest of Europe Poland

Belgian Overseas
Agencies Ltd.

Wholesale banking

ING Financial Holdings
Corp.

Wholesale banking

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

Colombia

ING Capital Colombia
S.A.S.

Wholesale banking

Mexico

ING Consulting, S.A. de C.V.Wholesale banking

China

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

Japan

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

33

36

3,702

22

9

Singapore

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

502

194

25,780

22

5

Hong Kong

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

106

80

5,964

40

7

Philippines

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

423

17

402

4

–2

South Korea Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

87

46

4,107

14

–1

Taiwan

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

32

15

2,484

3

1

Indonesia

PT ING Securities
Indonesia

Wholesale banking

5

1

7

–

–

Malaysia

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

5

–

3

–

–

India

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

–

–

2

–

–

Turkey

ING Bank A.S.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

5,497

757

15,864

225

45

North America Canada
USA
Latin America Brazil

Asia

Main activity

Average
number of
employees
at full time
equivalent
basis

United Arab Branch of ING Bank N.V.
Emirates

Wholesale banking

Australia

Australia

ING Bank (Australia) Ltd.

Retail banking

Other

Mauritius

ING Mauritius Ltd.

Investment management

Total

180

–

1

–2

–

505

36,691

309

90

–

32

715

32

–

51,943

17,491

845,081

5,903

1,618

1 Public subsidies received, as defined in article 89 of the CRD IV, amounts to EUR 1 million (2015: EUR 3 million).

ING Group Annual Report 2017

10
1,053

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

The UK has a high tax charge due to changes in tax law and prior year adjustments.
Russia, China, Philippines and South Korea all have lower tax charges due to prior year adjustments.
Austria has an inverse tax charge due to the recognition of a tax asset for previously unrecognised tax losses.
Brazil has a low tax charge due to the combination of relatively high exempt income with a decreased profit.
Mauritius has no tax charge as the partial sale of Kotak Mahindra Bank shares in September 2016 was tax exempt.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

181

Additional
information

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Additional information by country
2015

Total
Income

Total
assets2

Result
before
tax Taxation

Geographical
area

Country/Tax
jurisdiction

The
Netherlands

The
ING Bank N.V.
Netherlands2

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

14,586

5,185

471,510

818

365

Belgium

Belgium

ING België N.V.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

9,645

3,123

130,916

1,142

341

Luxembourg

ING Luxembourg S.A.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

774

298

9,331

166

35

ING Bank Slaski S.A.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

8,713

903

25,666

317

60

Germany

ING DiBa A.G.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

4,052

2,037

126,171

1,081

363

Romania

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

1,596

221

4,685

78

13

Spain

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

1,076

423

24,457

144

52

Italy

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

824

202

15,828

–87

–15

UK

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

642

556

32,156

362

–19

France1

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

625

256

7,489

67

23

Russia

ING Bank (Eurasia) Z.A.O. Wholesale banking

288

185

2,520

131

32

Czech
Republic

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

211

75

2,519

41

8

Hungary

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

162

46

1,129

13

5

Slovakia

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

265

13

573

8

2

Ukraine

PJSC ING Bank Ukraine

Wholesale banking

120

46

616

27

5

Austria

Branch of ING DiBa A.G.

Retail banking

169

93

321

51

9

Bulgaria

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

76

10

267

–2

–

Ireland

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

39

64

1,697

36

5

Portugal

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

2

3

616

3

1

Switzerland

Branch of ING België N.V. Wholesale banking

177

187

6,927

105

30

–

–

–

–

–

492

720

47,784

423

122

56

48

1,496

32

12

Rest of Europe Poland

North America Canada
USA
Latin America Brazil

Name of principal
subsidiary

Average
number of
employees
at full time
equivalent
basis

Main activity

Belgian Overseas
Agencies Ltd.

Wholesale banking

ING Financial Holdings
Corp.

Wholesale banking

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

Mexico

ING Consulting, S.A. de C.V.Wholesale banking

China

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

Japan

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

30

31

6,772

20

9

Singapore

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

472

386

19,111

230

30

Hong Kong

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

103

85

5,052

49

1

Philippines

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

249

22

436

5

3

South Korea

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

68

53

3,642

23

6

Taiwan

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

34

23

1,744

12

1

Indonesia

PT ING Securities
Indonesia

Wholesale banking

5

1

7

–

–

Malaysia

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

4

–

4

–

–

India

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

–

–

2

–

–

Turkey

ING Bank A.S.

Wholesale banking/Retail banking

6,070

641

17,544

155

34

United Arab
Emirates

Branch of ING Bank N.V.

Wholesale banking

Australia

Australia

ING Bank (Australia) Ltd.

Retail banking

Other

Mauritius

ING Mauritius Ltd.

Investment management

Asia

Total

8

–

1

–

–

59

39

1,551

16

10

7

–

–

–1

–

1,021

490

33,507

328

92

380

1,186

380

–

16,845 1,005,233

6,172

1,637

–
52,720

1 Public subsidies received, as defined in article 89 of the CRD IV, amounted to EUR 3 million in 2015.
2 Included in Total assets – the Netherlands, is EUR 2,153 million related to the Investment in associate held for sale, NN Group.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

182

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

The Netherlands has a high tax charge, partly due to the non-deductible Dutch bank tax and partly due to the recognition of a
deferred tax liability regarding previously deducted (UK) branch losses.
The UK has a low tax charge due to the recognition of previously unrecognised tax losses carried forward.
Mauritius has no tax charge, due to an unrealised tax exempt result, following the merger of ING Vysya with Kotak in April 2015.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

183

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Additional notes to the Consolidated annual accounts
35 Pension and other post-employment benefits

Most group companies sponsor defined contribution pension plans. The assets of all ING Group’s defined contribution plans are held in
independently administered funds. Contributions are generally determined as a percentage of remuneration. For the defined
contribution scheme in the Netherlands, the premium paid is also dependant on the interest rate developments and DNB’s
methodology for determining the ultimate forward rate. These plans do not give rise to provisions in the statement of financial
position, other than relating to short-term timing differences included in other assets/liabilities.
ING Group maintains defined benefit retirement plans in some countries. These plans provide benefits that are related to the
remuneration and service of employees upon retirement. The benefits in some of these plans are subject to various forms of
indexation. The indexation is, in some cases, at the discretion of management; in other cases it is dependent upon the sufficiency of
plan assets.
Annual contributions are paid to the funds at a rate necessary to adequately finance the accrued liabilities of the plans calculated in
accordance with local legal requirements. Plans in all countries are designed to comply with applicable local regulations governing
investments and funding levels.
ING Group provides other post-employment benefits to certain employees and former employees. These are primarily postemployment healthcare benefits and discounts on ING products provided to employees and former employees.

Statement of financial position - Net defined benefit asset/liability
Plan assets and defined benefit obligation per country
Plan assets

The Netherlands
United States

Defined benefit
obligation

Funded Status

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

408

414

568

576

–160

–162

176

182

233

243

–57

–61

1,864

1,983

1,326

1,377

538

606

Belgium

597

641

672

776

–75

–135

Other countries

161

117

341

277

–180

–160

3,206

3,337

3,140

3,249

66

88

United Kingdom

Funded status (Net defined benefit asset/liability)
Presented as:
-Other assets
-Other liabilities

542

609

–476

–521

66

88

The most recent (actuarial) valuations of the plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation were carried out as at
31 December 2017. The present value of the defined benefit obligation, and the related current service cost and past service cost, were
determined using the projected unit credit method.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

184

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Changes in the fair value of plan assets for the period were as follows:
Changes in fair value of plan assets
Opening balance

2017

2016

3,337

3,141

Interest income

70

87

Remeasurements: Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in interest income

52

467

Employer's contribution

24

76

Participants contributions
Benefits paid
Exchange rate differences
Closing balance
Actual return on the plan assets

2

2

–186

–137

–93

–299

3,206

3,337

122

554

As at 31 December 2017 the various defined benefit plans did not hold any direct investments in ING Groep N.V. (2016: nil). During
2017 there were no purchases or sales of assets between ING and the pension fund.
ING does not manage the pension funds and thus receives no compensation for fund management. The pension fund has not
engaged ING in any swap or derivative transactions to manage the risk of the pension funds.
No plan assets are expected to be returned to ING Group during 2018.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation and other post-employment benefits for the period were as follows:
Changes in defined benefit obligation and other post-employment benefits
Defined benefit Other post-employment
obligation
benefits
2017

2016

2017

3,249

2,996

87

98

Current service cost

34

32

–3

–25

Interest cost

66

79

3

3

9

10

–1

–1

Opening balance

Remeasurements: Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in demographic
assumptions

–7

–17

Remeasurements: Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions

71

498

Participants’ contributions
Benefits paid

2

1

–189

–148

Past service cost

2

Effect of curtailment or settlement
Exchange rate differences
Closing balance

ING Group Annual Report 2017

2016

185

–3

–2

–83

–192

–8

2

3,140

3,249

87

87

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Amounts recognised directly in Other comprehensive income (equity) were as follows:
Changes in the net defined benefit assets/liability remeasurement reserve
Opening balance
Remeasurement of plan assets
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions

2017

2016

–371

–306

52

467

7

17

–71

–498

Taxation

–17

–51

Total Other comprehensive income movement for the year

–29

–65

–400

–371

Closing balance

In 2017, EUR 52 million Remeasurement of plan assets and EUR –71 million Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial
assumptions are mainly due to a decrease in discount rates.
The accumulated amount of remeasurements recognised directly in Other comprehensive income (equity) is EUR –476 million (EUR –
400 million after tax) as at 31 December 2017 (2016: EUR –483 million, EUR –371 million after tax).
Amounts recognised in statement of profit or loss related to pension and other staff related benefits are as follows:
Pension and other staff-related benefit costs
Net defined
benefit asset/liability

Current service cost

Other
post-employment benefits

Other

2016

2015

2017

2016

2015

2017

2016

2015

2017

2016

34

32

34

–3

–25

–7

–2

11

–8

29

18

19

2

–11

2

–11

–3

–6

–3

–2

–64

26

15

–49

Past service cost
Net Interest cost

–4

–8

–9

Effect of curtailment or
settlement

–3

–2

–3

3

3

1

1

2

–9

2
–52

Other
Defined benefit plans

Total

2017

13
27

24

11

–22

Defined contribution plans

–15

–1

13

–45

2015

13

355

329

324

381

344

275

Determination of the net defined benefit asset/liability

The defined net benefit asset/liability is reviewed and adjusted annually. The assumptions used in the determination of the net
defined benefit asset/liability and the Other post-employment benefits include discount rates, mortality rates, expected rates of salary
increases (excluding promotion increases), and indexation. The rates used for salary developments, interest discount factors, and
other adjustments reflect country-specific conditions.
The key assumption in the determination of the net defined benefit asset/liability is the discount rate. The discount rate is the
weighted average of the discount rates that are applied in different regions where the Group has defined benefit pension plans
(weighted by defined benefit obligation). The discount rate is based on a methodology that uses market yields on high quality
corporate bonds of the specific regions with durations matching the pension liabilities as key input. Market yields of high quality
corporate bonds reflect the yield on corporate bonds with an AA rating for durations where such yields are available. An extrapolation
is applied in order to determine the yield to the longer durations for which no AA-rated corporate bonds are available. As a result of
the limited availability of long-duration AA-rated corporate bonds, extrapolation is an important element of the determination of the
discount rate. The weighted average discount rate applied for net defined benefit asset/liability for 2017 was 2.0% (2.1% in 2016)
based on the pension plan in the Netherlands, Germany, Belgium, The United States of America, and the United Kingdom. The average
discount rate for Other post-employment benefits 3.2% (3.5% in 2016).

ING Group Annual Report 2017

186

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Sensitivity analysis of key assumptions

ING performs sensitivity analysis on the most significant assumptions: discount rates, mortality, expected rate of salary increase, and
indexation. The sensitivity analysis has been carried out under the assumption the changes occurred at the end of the reporting
period.
The sensitivity analysis calculates the financial impact on the defined benefit obligation if the weighted averages of each significant
actuarial assumption would increase or decrease if all other assumptions were held constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and
some changes of the assumptions may be correlated. Changes to mortality, expected rate or salary increase, and indexation would
have no material impact to the defined benefit obligation. The most significant impact would be from a change in the discount rate.
An increase or decrease in the discount rate of 1% creates a financial impact of EUR –480 million and EUR 619 million respectively.

Expected cash flows

Annual contributions are paid to the funds at a rate necessary to adequately finance the accrued liabilities of the plans calculated in
accordance with local legal requirements. Plans in all countries are designed to comply with applicable local regulations governing
investments and funding levels. ING Group’s subsidiaries should fund the cost of the entitlements expected to be earned on a yearly
basis.
For 2018 the expected contributions to pension plans are EUR 32 million.
The benefit payments for defined benefit and other post-employment benefits expected to be made by the plan between 2018-2022
are estimated to be between EUR 91 million and EUR 112 million per annum. From 2023 to 2027 the total payments made by the plan
are expected to be EUR 423 million.

36 Taxation
Statement of financial position – Deferred tax

Deferred taxes are recognised on all temporary differences under the liability method using tax rates applicable in the jurisdictions in
which ING Group is subject to taxation.
Changes in deferred tax

2017

Investments
Investment properties

Net
liability (-)
Net
asset (+)
2016

Change
through
equity

–799

123

Changes in
the
composition of the
Change Exchange group and
through
rate
other
net result differences
changes

Net
liability (-)
Net
asset (+)
2017

116

5

–555

–290

12

419

4

–24

–1

–72

–5

Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss

–5

697

Depreciation

–33

Cash flow hedges

5

–238

167

Pension and post-employment benefits

112

–25

Other provisions

255

Receivables

570

Loans and advances to customers

–409

Unused tax losses carried forward

–2

57

Other

–6

–5

–48

–6

49

–5

76
–3

198
614

17

–394

–60

–5

–8

–126

–10

–49

2

–183

81

253

–266

1

–3

66

Presented in the statement of financial position as:
– deferred tax liabilities
– deferred tax assets

–919

–752

1,000

818

81

66

The deferred tax balance recorded under ‘Unused tax losses carried forward' is the balance of recognised deferred assets (DTA) for
unused tax losses carried forward and the deferred tax liability (DTL) recorded regarding previously deducted UK tax losses in the
Netherlands. Due to increased profitability in the United Kingdom (UK) all UK carry forward losses have been recognised during 2017
and a corresponding DTL in the Netherlands has been taken up accordingly. The DTA and DTL amount to EUR 128 million and EUR
–136 million respectively creating a net deferred tax liability of EUR –8 million.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

187

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Changes in deferred tax

2016

Investments
Investment properties
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Depreciation

Net
liability (-)
Net
asset (+)
2015

Change
through
equity

–780

74

Pension and post-employment benefits

–82

–2

–3

739

–58

–46

Cash flow hedges

Changes in
the
composition of the
Change Exchange group and
through
rate
other
net result differences
changes
–10

–1

–51

201

–20

–799
–5

16

697

13

–192

Net
liability (-)
Net
asset (+)
2016

–33
4

1

–238

–84

15

24

228

2

441

120

9

570

Loans and advances to customers

–235

–166

–8

–409

Unused tax losses carried forward

118

–34

–24

Other

–97

–1

–27

–1

171

2

–93

3

Other provisions
Receivables

112
1

–3

255

57
–126

–2

81

Presented in the statement of financial position as:
– deferred tax liabilities
– deferred tax assets

–643

–919

814

1,000

171

81

Deferred tax in connection with unused tax losses carried forward
2017

2016

Total unused tax losses carried forward

1,732

1,876

Unused tax losses carried forward not recognised as a deferred tax asset

1,074

973

658

903

19.5%

22.5%

128

203

Unused tax losses carried forward recognised as a deferred tax asset
Average tax rate
Deferred tax asset

Total unused tax losses carried forward analysed by expiry terms
No deferred tax asset
recognised

Deferred tax asset
recognised

2017

2016

2

2

350

383

More than 5 years but less than 10 years

31

30

More than 10 years but less than 20 years

18

18

673

540

620

845

1,074

973

658

903

Within 1 year
More than 1 year but less than 5 years

Unlimited

2017

2016

38

56

2

The above mentioned deferred tax of EUR 128 million (2016: EUR 203 million) and the related unused tax losses carried forward
exclude the deferred tax liability recorded in the Netherlands with respect to the recapture of previously deducted UK tax losses in the
Netherlands for the amount of EUR –136 million (2016: EUR –146 million). The comparative figures in the two tables above have been
adjusted accordingly.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for temporary deductible differences, for tax losses carried forward and unused tax credits only to
the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit is probable.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

188

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Breakdown of certain net deferred tax asset positions by jurisdiction
2017

Italy

2016

107

113

107

113

The table above includes a breakdown of certain net deferred tax asset positions by jurisdiction for which the utilisation is dependent
on future taxable profits whilst the related entities have incurred losses in either the current or the preceding year. In 2017, the
aggregate amount for the most significant entities is EUR 107 million (2016: EUR 113 million).
Recognition is based on the fact that it is probable that the entity will have taxable profits and/or can utilise tax planning opportunities
before expiration of the deferred tax assets. Changes in circumstances in future periods may adversely impact the assessment of the
recoverability. The uncertainty of the recoverability is taken into account in establishing the deferred tax assets.
As at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016, ING Groep N.V. had no significant temporary differences associated with the parent
company’s investments in subsidiaries as any economic benefit from those investments will not be taxable at parent company level.

Statement of profit or loss – Taxation
Taxation by type
Netherlands

Current taxation
Deferred taxation

International

Total

2017

2016

2015

2017

2016

2015

2017

2016

2015

488

150

–42

1,527

1,375

1,413

2,015

1,525

1,371

151

193

407

115

–100

–141

266

93

266

639

343

365

1,642

1,275

1,272

2,281

1,618

1,637

The deferred tax charge in 2016 in the Netherlands has decreased and the current tax charge has increased as a result of the full
utilisation of prior year tax losses.
Reconciliation of the weighted average statutory income tax rate to ING Group’s effective income tax rate
2017

20161

2015

7,268

5,903

6,172

Weighted average statutory tax rate

27.1%

27.5%

27.3%

Weighted average statutory tax amount

1,968

1,621

1,688

Result before tax from continuing operations

Participation exemption

–45

–72

–34

Other income not subject to tax

–74

–111

–162

Expenses not deductible for tax purposes

156

132

154

Impact on deferred tax from change in tax rates

55

–1

12

Deferred tax benefit from previously unrecognised amounts

–4

–18

54

Current tax from previously unrecognised amounts

66

–22

–63

2

33

18

47

33

Write–off/reversal of deferred tax assets
State and local taxes
Adjustment to prior periods
Effective tax amount
Effective tax rate

110

23

–30

2,281

1,618

1,637

31.4%

27.4%

26.5%

1 ‘Other income not subject to tax’ and Expenses not deductible for tax purposes’ have been adjusted to reflect the impact of income taxes other than corporate
(statutory) income tax on the line ‘State and local taxes’.

The weighted average statutory tax rate in 2017 does not significantly differ compared to 2016.
The effective tax rate in 2017 is 31.4%.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

189

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

The effective tax rate in 2017 is significantly higher than the weighted average statutory tax rate. This was caused by the following
items:
• A relatively high amount of prior period tax adjustments which ING, for the most part is expected to be reimbursed by NN Group
(reimbursement is included in the result before tax), recorded under ‘Adjustment to prior periods’;
• Impact on deferred tax positions following changes in the income tax rate in the USA and Belgium, recorded under ‘Impact on
deferred tax from change in tax rates’; and
• The recapture of previously deducted UK tax losses in the Netherlands due to increased profitability in the United Kingdom,
recorded under ‘Current tax from previously unrecognised amounts’.
The effective tax rate in 2016 is almost equal to the weighted average statutory tax rate. This is mainly caused by the fact the nontaxable income and the recognition of tax benefits from previously unrecognised amounts are almost fully offset by non-deductible
expenses, and the write-off of deferred tax assets and the adjustments to prior periods.
The effective tax rate in 2015 was lower than the weighted average statutory tax rate. This was mainly caused by non-taxable
income, the recognition of tax benefits from previously unrecognised amounts and prior year adjustments which were only partly
offset by non-deductible items.
Tax exempt income (participation exemption) mainly includes non-taxable income on divestments, tax exempt share in result from
associates and joint ventures and tax exempt gains on financial assets.

Equity – Other comprehensive income
Income tax related to components of other comprehensive income
Unrealised revaluations available-for-sale investments and other revaluations
Realised gains/losses transferred to the statement of profit or loss (reclassifications from equity to profit or
loss)

2017

2016

2015

103

17

111
39

20

57

Changes in cash flow hedge reserve

167

–51

24

Remeasurement of the net defined benefit asset/liability

–25

–20

–13

Changes in composition of the group and other changes

–12

–1

Total income tax related to components of other comprehensive income

253

2

Exchange rate differences and other

–46
115

Tax Contingency

The contingent liability in connection with taxation in the Netherlands refers to a possible obligation arising from the deduction from
Dutch taxable profit of losses incurred by ING Bank in the United Kingdom in previous years. The existence of this obligation will be
confirmed only by the occurrence of future profits in the United Kingdom.

37 Fair value of assets and liabilities
a) Financial assets and liabilities

The following table presents the estimated fair values of ING Group’s financial assets and liabilities. Certain items per the statement of
financial position are not included in the table, as they do not meet the definition of a financial asset or liability. The aggregation of the
fair values presented below does not represent, and should not be construed as representing, the underlying value of ING Group.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

190

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
Estimated fair value

Statement of
financial position value

2017

2016

2017

2016

Cash and balances with central banks

21,989

18,144

21,989

18,144

Loans and advances to banks

28,911

28,940

28,811

28,858

Financial assets

Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
– trading assets

116,748

114,504

116,748

114,504

– non-trading derivatives

2,231

2,490

2,231

2,490

– designated as at fair value through profit or loss

4,242

5,099

4,242

5,099

– available-for-sale

69,730

82,912

69,730

82,912

– held-to-maturity

9,378

8,809

9,343

8,751

588,998

578,596

574,535

563,660

Investments

Loans and advances to customers
Other assets1

11,744

13,258

11,744

13,258

853,971

852,752

839,373

837,676

Financial liabilities
Deposits from banks

36,868

32,352

36,821

31,964

540,547

523,850

539,799

522,942

73,596

83,167

73,596

83,167

2,331

3,541

2,331

3,541

– designated as at fair value through profit or loss

11,215

12,266

11,215

12,266

Other liabilities2

14,488

15,247

14,488

15,247

Debt securities in issue

96,736

103,559

96,086

103,234

Customer deposits
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
– trading liabilities
– non-trading derivatives

Subordinated loans

16,457

17,253

15,968

17,223

792,238

791,235

790,304

789,584

1 Other assets do not include, among others: (deferred) tax assets, net defined benefit asset, inventory, property development and property obtained from
foreclosures. 2016 figure has been changed to conform to the current year presentation.
2 Other liabilities do not include, among others: (deferred) tax liabilities, net defined benefit and related employee benefit liabilities, reorganisation and other
provisions ,and other taxation and social security contributions.

Valuation Methods

The estimated fair values represent the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date. It is a market-based measurement, which is based on
assumptions that market participants would use and takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability that market
participants would take into account when pricing the asset or liability. Fair values of financial assets and liabilities are based on
quoted prices in active market where available. When such quoted prices are not available, the fair value is determined by using
valuation techniques.
ING uses unadjusted quotes where available. Unadjusted quoted prices are primarily obtained from exchange prices for listed financial
instruments. Where an exchange price is not available, quoted market prices in active markets may be obtained from independent
market vendors, brokers, or market makers. In general, positions are valued at the bid price for a long position and at the offer price for
a short position or are valued at the price within the bid-offer spread that is most representative of fair value at the date of valuation.
For certain financial assets and liabilities quoted market prices are not available. For these financial assets and liabilities, fair value is
determined using valuation techniques. These valuation techniques range from discounting of cash flows to various valuation models,
where relevant pricing factors including the market price of underlying reference instruments, market parameters (e.g. volatilities,
correlations and credit ratings), and customer behaviour are taken into account. ING maximises the use of market observable inputs
and minimises the use of unobservable input in determining the fair value. The fair value can be subjective dependent on the
significance of the unobservable input to the overall valuation. All valuation techniques used are subject to internal review and
approval. Data used in these valuation techniques are validated on a daily basis when possible.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

191

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

When a group of financial assets and financial liabilities are managed on the basis of their net risk exposures, it measures the fair
value of a group of financial assets or liabilities on net portfolio level.

Control framework

To determine whether the valuations based upon data inputs have led to an appropriate fair value, the process of independent price
verification (‘IPV’) or price testing is applied. This is done to ensure the appropriate reflection of these valuations in balance sheet and
the profit and loss accounts. IPV tests and confirms the reliability of the market data used in these valuations and can lead to
adjustments in valuation. The IPV process is performed at least monthly or more frequently depending on the nature of the market or
trading activity. Multiple data sources are used to the extent that such prices are available and taking into account cost-benefit ratio of
retrieving such prices. Valuation differences between primary and secondary source data are assessed. When differences resulting
from price testing exceed pre-approved thresholds, adjustments to the profit and loss shall be made. Differences and adjustments
must be assessed individually, approved by the Local Parameter Committee, and reported back in the meeting minutes. In case a
material difference in value is found through the IPV process, it must be fully understood what the underlying cause is for the
difference, and if a systematic change is required (e.g. change of source). Pricing and price testing is applied at individual trade level
and is organised at a desk level.
Valuation processes are governed by various governance bodies, which include Local Parameter Committees (LPC), Global Price
Testing and Impairment Committee (GP&IC), Market Data Committee (MDC), Trading Pricing Model Committee (TPMC) and others. All
relevant committees meet on a quarterly basis or more frequent as required. Key valuation controls including product approval
process (PARP), IPV, valuation adjustments, and model use is monitored.
The Global Price Testing and Impairment Committee is responsible for the oversight and the approval of the outcome of impairments
(other than loan loss provisioning) and valuation- (price-testing) processes which include the use of appropriate models and inputs
related to fair valued positions. It oversees the quality and coherence of valuation methodologies and processes. Local Parameter
Committees monitor the appropriateness of (quoted) pricing, any other relevant market info, as well as that of pricing models
themselves related to the fair valued positions to which they are applied. LPC executes valuation methodology and processes at a
local level. Global Price Testing and Impairment Committee oversees market data sources and market data set up / points used for
official valuation of positions for fair value. Trading Pricing Model Committee approve and review all pricing models and methodologies
for the calculation of market parameters.

Valuation Adjustments

Valuation adjustments are an integral part of the fair value. They are included as part of the fair value to provide better estimation of
market exit value on measurement date. ING applies various valuation adjustments including Bid-Offer adjustments, Credit Valuation
Adjustments (CVA), Debt Valuation Adjustments (DVA), Model Risk Valuation Adjustments, Collateral Valuation Adjustment (CollVA)
and Funding Valuation Adjustment (FVA). The combination of Credit Valuation adjustment and Debt Valuation adjustment for
derivatives is called Bilateral Valuation Adjustment (BVA).
•

•

•
•
•

Bid-Offer adjustments are required to adjust mid-market values to appropriate bid or offer value in order to best represent the exit
value, and therefore fair value. It is applicable to financial assets and liabilities that are valued at mid-price initially. In practice this
adjustment accounts for the difference in valuation from mid to bid and mid to offer for long and short exposures respectively. In
principle assets are valued at the bid prices and liabilities are valued at the offer price. For certain assets or liabilities, where market
quoted price is not available, the price within the bid-offer spread that is most representative of fair value is used.
Bilateral Valuation Adjustment (BVA) is the valuation component for the counterparty credit risk of the derivative contracts. It has
bilateral nature, where both counterparty’s credit risk and ING own credit risks are taken into account. The calculation is based on
the estimation of the expected exposure, the counterparties’ risk of default, and taking into account the collateral agreements as
well as netting agreements. The counterparties’ risk of default is measured by probability of default and expected loss given
default, which is based on market information including credit default swap (CDS) spread. Where counterparty CDS spreads are
not available, relevant proxy spreads are used. Additionally, wrong-way risk (when exposure to a counterparty is increasing and
the credit quality of that counterparty deteriorates) and right-way risk (when exposure to a counterparty is increasing and the
credit quality of that counterparty improves) are included in the adjustment.
ING applies Debt Valuation Adjustment (DVA) to own issued financial liabilities that are measured at fair value through profit or
loss, if the credit risk component has not been included in the prices. In the DVA calculation, the default probability of the
institution are estimated based on the ING Funding spread.
Model risk adjustments reduce the risk of possible financial losses resulting from the use of a mis-specified, misapplied, or incorrect
implementation of a model.
Collateral Valuation Adjustment (CollVA) is a derivative valuation adjustment capturing specific features of CSA (Credit Support
Annex) with a counterparty that the regular OIS (Overnight Index Swap) discounting framework does not capture. Non-standard
CSA features may include deviations in relation to the currency in which ING posts or receives collateral, deviations in
remuneration rate on collateral which may pay lower or higher rate than overnight rate or even no interest at all. Other deviations
can be posting securities rather than cash as collateral.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

192

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

•

ING applies an additional ‘funding valuation adjustment’ (FVA) to address the funding costs associated with the collateral funding
asymmetry on uncollateralized or partially collateralized derivatives in the portfolio. This adjustment is based on the expected
exposure profiles of the uncollateralized or partially collateralized OTC derivatives and market-based funding spreads.

The following methods and assumptions were used by ING Group to estimate the fair value of the financial instruments:

a.1) Financial assets
Cash and balances with central banks

The carrying amount of cash approximates its fair value.

Loans and advances to banks

The fair values of receivables from banks are generally based on quoted market prices or, if unquoted, on estimates based on
discounting future cash flows using available market interest rates including appropriate spreads offered for receivables with similar
characteristics, similar to Loans and advances to customers described below.

Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and Investments
Derivatives

Derivatives contracts can either be exchange-traded or over the counter (OTC). The fair value of exchange-traded derivatives is
determined using quoted market prices in an active market and those derivatives are classified in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
For those instruments not actively traded, fair values are estimated based on valuation techniques. OTC derivatives and derivatives
trading in an inactive market are valued using valuation techniques because quoted market prices in an active market are not
available for such instruments. The valuation techniques and inputs depend on the type of derivative and the nature of the underlying
instruments. The principal techniques used to value these instruments are based on (amongst others) discounted cash flows option
pricing models and Monte Carlo simulation. These valuation models calculate the present value of expected future cash flows, based
on ‘no-arbitrage’ principles. These models are commonly used in the financial industry. Inputs to valuation models are determined
from observable market data where possible. Certain inputs may not be observable in the market directly, but can be determined
from observable prices via valuation model calibration procedures. The inputs used include for example prices available from
exchanges, dealers, brokers or providers of pricing, yield curves, credit spreads, default rates, recovery rates, dividend rates, volatility
of underlying interest rates, equity prices, and foreign currency exchange rates. These inputs are determined with reference to quoted
prices, recently executed trades, independent market quotes and consensus data, where available.
For uncollateralised OTC derivatives, ING applies Credit Valuation Adjustment to correctly reflect the counterparty credit risk in the
valuation. The technique for calculating CVA is based on Monte Carlo simulation and uses various input including counterparty credit
spread, market interest rates, and market exchanges rates. The counterparty credit spreads are based on counterparty CDS spread
where available. Otherwise, the indexed proxy CDS spreads are used.

Equity securities

The fair values of publicly traded equity securities are based on quoted market prices when available. Where no quoted market prices
are available, fair value is determined based on quoted prices for similar securities or other valuation techniques.
The fair value of private equity is based on quoted market prices, if available. In the absence of quoted prices in an active market, fair
value is estimated on the basis of an analysis of the investee’s financial position and results, risk profile, prospects, price, earnings
comparisons and revenue multiples, and by reference to market valuations for similar entities quoted in an active market.

Debt securities

Fair values for debt securities are based on quoted market prices, where available. Quoted market prices may be obtained from an
exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory service. The quoted prices from non-exchange sources are
assessed to determine if they are tradable prices. This distinction determines where it falls in the fair value hierarchy.
If quoted prices in an active market are not available, fair value is based on an analysis of available market inputs, which may include
consensus prices obtained from one or more pricing services or by a valuation technique that discounts expected future cash flows
using a market interest rate curves, referenced credit spreads, maturity of the investment, and estimated prepayment rates where
applicable.

Loans and receivables

Reference is made to Loans and advances to customers below.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

193

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Loans and advances to customers

For loans and advances that are repriced frequently and have had no significant changes in credit risk, carrying amounts represent a
reasonable estimate of the fair value. The fair value of other loans is estimated by discounting expected future cash flows using a
discount rate that reflects credit risk, liquidity, and other current market conditions. The fair value of mortgage loans is estimated by
taking into account prepayment behaviour. Loans with similar characteristics are aggregated for calculation purposes.

Other assets

The other assets are stated at their carrying value which is not significantly different from their fair value.

a.2) Financial liabilities
Deposits from banks

The fair values of payables to banks are generally based on quoted market prices or, if not available, on estimates based on
discounting future cash flows using available market interest rates and credit spreads for payables to banks with similar
characteristics.

Customer deposits

The carrying values of customer deposits with an immediate on demand features approximate their fair values. The fair values of
deposits with fixed contractual terms have been estimated based on discounting future cash flows using the interest rates currently
applicable to deposits of similar maturities.

Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss

The fair values of securities in the trading portfolio and other liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are based on quoted market
prices, where available. For those securities not actively traded, fair values are estimated based on internal discounted cash flow
valuation techniques using interest rates and credit spreads that apply to similar instruments. Reference is made to Financial assets at
fair value through profit or loss above.

Other liabilities

The other liabilities are stated at their carrying value which is not significantly different from their fair value.

Debt securities in issue

The fair value of debt securities in issue is generally based on quoted market prices, or if not available, on estimated prices by
discounting expected future cash flows using a current market interest rate and credit spreads applicable to the yield, credit quality
and maturity.

Subordinated loans

The fair value of publicly traded subordinated loans are based on quoted market prices when available. Where no quoted market
prices are available, fair value of the subordinated loans is estimated using discounted cash flows based on interest rates and credit
spreads that apply to similar instruments.

a.3) Fair value hierarchy

ING Group has categorised its financial instruments that are either measured in the statement of financial position at fair value or of
which the fair value is disclosed, into a three level hierarchy based on the priority of the inputs to the valuation. The fair value
hierarchy gives the highest priority to (unadjusted) quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities and the lowest
priority to valuation techniques supported by unobservable inputs. An active market for the asset or liability is a market in which
transactions for the asset or liability occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide reliable pricing information on an ongoing
basis. The fair value hierarchy consists of three levels, depending upon whether fair values were determined based on (unadjusted)
quoted prices in an active market (Level 1), valuation techniques with observable inputs (Level 2) or valuation techniques that
incorporate inputs which are unobservable and which have a more than insignificant impact on the fair value of the instrument (Level
3). Financial assets in Level 3 include for example illiquid debt securities, complex derivatives, certain complex loans (for which current
market information about similar assets to use as observable, corroborated data for all significant inputs into a valuation model is not
available), and asset backed securities for which there is no active market and a wide dispersion in quoted prices.
Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources. Unobservable inputs are inputs which are based on the
Group’s own assumptions about the factors that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability, developed based on the
best information available in the market. Unobservable inputs may include volatility, correlation, spreads to discount rates, default
rates and recovery rates, prepayment rates, and certain credit spreads. Transfers into and transfers out of fair value hierarchy levels
are made on a quarterly basis.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

194

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Level 1 – (Unadjusted) quoted prices in active markets

This category includes financial instruments whose fair value is determined directly by reference to (unadjusted) quoted prices in an
active market that ING Group can access. A financial instrument is regarded as quoted in an active market if quoted prices are readily
and regularly available from an exchange, dealer markets, brokered markets, or principal to principal markets. Those prices represent
actual and regularly occurring market transactions with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing
basis. Transfers out of Level 1 into Level 2 or Level 3 occur when ING Group establishes that markets are no longer active and therefore
(unadjusted) quoted prices no longer provide reliable pricing information.

Level 2 – Valuation technique supported by observable inputs

This category includes financial instruments whose fair value is based on market observables other than (unadjusted) quoted prices.
The fair value for financial instruments in this category can be determined by reference to quoted prices for similar instruments in
active markets, but for which the prices are modified based on other market observable external data or reference to quoted prices for
identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active. These prices can be obtained from a third party pricing service. ING
analyses how the prices are derived and determines whether the prices are liquid tradable prices or model based consensus prices
taking various data as inputs.
For financial instruments that do not have a reference price available, fair value is determined using a valuation technique (e.g. a
model), where inputs in the model are taken from an active market or are observable, such as interest rates and yield curves
observable at commonly quoted intervals, implied volatilities, and credit spreads.
If certain inputs in the model are unobservable, the instrument is still classified in this category, provided that the impact of those
unobservable inputs on the overall valuation is insignificant. The notion of significant is particularly relevant for the distinction between
Level 2 and Level 3 assets and liabilities. ING Group has chosen to align the definition of significant with the 90% confidence range as
captured in the prudent value definition by EBA. Unobservable parameters are shifted down and upwards to reach this 90%
confidence range. The same 90% confidence range is applied to model uncertainty. If the combined change in asset value resulting
from the shift of the unobservable parameters and the model uncertainty exceeds the threshold, the asset is classified as Level 3. A
value change below the threshold results in a Level 2 classification.
Valuation techniques used for Level 2 assets and liabilities range from discounting of cash flows to various industry standard valuation
models such as option pricing model and Monte Carlo simulation model, where relevant pricing factors including the market price of
underlying reference instruments, market parameters (volatilities, correlations, and credit ratings), and customer behaviour are taken
into account.

Level 3 – Valuation technique supported by unobservable inputs

This category includes financial instruments whose fair value is determined using a valuation technique (e.g. a model) for which more
than an insignificant part of the inputs in terms of the overall valuation are not market observable. This category also includes
financial assets and liabilities whose fair value is determined by reference to price quotes but for which the market is considered
inactive. An instrument in its entirety is classified as Level 3 if a significant portion of the instrument’s fair value is driven by
unobservable inputs. Unobservable in this context means that there is little or no current market data available from which to derive a
price that an unrelated, informed buyer would purchase the asset or liability at.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

195

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Financial instruments at fair value

The fair values of the financial instruments were determined as follows:
Methods applied in determining fair values of financial assets and liabilities (carried at fair value)
Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

20,114

17,652

95,530

95,629

1,104

1,223

116,748

114,504

3

2,146

2,231

85

256

2,231

2,490

Financial Assets
Trading assets
Non-trading derivatives
Financial assets designated as at fair value through
profit or loss
Available-for-sale investments

319

502

3,558

4,141

365

456

4,242

5,099

65,310

76,238

3,940

6,153

480

521

69,730

82,912

85,743

94,395

105,174

108,154

2,034

2,456

192,951

205,005

5,770

6,139

66,753

75,650

1,073

1,378

73,596

83,167

2,263

3,517

68

24

2,331

3,541

Financial liabilities
Trading liabilities
Non-trading derivatives
Financial liabilities designated as at fair value through
profit or loss

1,285

1,348

9,829

10,795

101

123

11,215

12,266

7,055

7,487

78,845

89,962

1,242

1,525

87,142

98,974

Main changes in fair value hierarchy

There were no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 in 2017 and 2016.
There were no significant changes in the valuation techniques during the 2017 and 2016.

Changes in Level 3 Financial assets

Trading assets

Non-trading
derivatives

Financial assets
designated as at
fair value through
profit or loss

Available-for-sale
investments

Total

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

1,223

1,146

256

168

456

338

521

693

2,456

2,345

–232

226

–45

–34

4

76

200

–273

468

–5

–144

–5

–144

610

77

–9

5

226

193

62

68

889

343

Sale of assets

–326

–71

–92

–4

–1

–76

–43

–183

–462

–334

Maturity/settlement

–141

–135

–2

–24

–9

–168

–144

7

–92

7

–92

5

9

88

–392

–118

–26

11

Opening balance
Realised gain/loss recognised in the
statement of profit or loss during the
period1,3
Revaluation recognised in other
comprehensive income during the period2,4
Purchase of assets

–1

Reclassifications
Transfers into Level 3
Transfers out of Level 3
Exchange rate differences

9

21

–37

–43

–2

3

1,104

1,223

Changes in the composition of the group
and other changes
Closing balance

62
–23

–319

–75

-13
–24

–1

59
85

256

365

456

8

–1

–25

–1

33

480

521

2,034

2,456

1 Net gains/losses were recorded in income from trading activities in continuing operations herein as ‘Valuation results and net trading income’ in the statement of
profit or loss.
2 Revaluation recognised in other comprehensive income is included on the line ‘Unrealised revaluations available-for-sale investements and other revaluations’.
3 ‘Amounts recognised in the statement of profit or loss during the year’ has been renamed to ‘Realised gain/loss recognised in the statement of profit or loss during
the period’.
4 ‘Revaluation recognised in equity during the year’ has been renamed to ‘Revaluation recognised in other comprehensive income during the period’.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

196

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

In 2017 and 2016, financial assets were transferred out of Level 3 on the basis that the valuation is not significantly impacted by
unobservable inputs.
In 2016, included in ‘Realised gain/loss recognised in the statement of profit or loss during the period’, is EUR 163 million related to the
release of revaluation reserves on shares held in VISA Europe Limited.
Changes in Level 3 Financial liabilities
Non-trading
derivatives

Trading liabilities

Financial liabilities
designated as at
fair value through
profit or loss

Total

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

1,378

1,239

24

1

123

198

1,525

1,438

–105

277

44

12

–6

–3

–67

286

485

53

1

11

14

4

500

68

Early repayment of liabilities

–399

–62

–1

–11

–21

–13

–421

–86

Maturity/settlement

–187

–62

–187

–62

16

16

–111

–86

Opening balance
Realised gain/loss recognised in the statement of profit or loss
during the period1,2
Issue of liabilities

Transfers into Level 3
Transfers out of Level 3
Exchange rate differences

–4

Changes in the composition of the group and other changes
Closing balance

11
–9

–63

6

16

27

–120

–149

–4

6

–3
1,073

–3

1,378

68

24

101

123

1,242

1,525

1 Net gains/losses were recorded in income from trading activities in continuing operations included herein as ‘Valuation results and net trading income’ in the
statement of profit or loss.
2 ‘Amounts recongnised in the statement of profit or loss during the year’ has been renamed to ‘Realised gain/loss recognised in the statement of profit or loss
during the period’.

In 2017 and 2016, financial liabilities were transferred out of Level 3 mainly due to the valuation not being significantly impacted by
unobservable inputs.
Amounts recognised in the statement of profit or loss during the period (Level 3)
Held at balance
sheet date
2017

2016

–232
–45

Derecognised
during the period
2017

2016

Total
2017

2016

226

–232

226

–34

–45

–34

4

76

4

–2

–3

2

203

–275

265

2

203

Financial assets
Trading assets
Non–trading derivatives
Financial assets designated as at fair value through profit or loss
Available-for-sale investments

76
200

–273

468

Financial liabilities
Trading liabilities

–105

277

–105

277

Non-trading derivatives

44

12

44

12

Financial liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss

–6

–3

–6

–3

–67

286

–67

286

Recognition of unrealised gains and losses in Level 3

–

–

Amounts recognised in the statement of profit or loss relating to unrealised gains and losses during the year that relates to Level 3
assets and liabilities are included in the statement of profit or loss as follows:
• Results on trading assets and trading liabilities are included in Valuation results and net trading income;
• Non-trading derivatives are included in Valuation results and net trading income; and
• Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss are included in Valuation results and net trading
income - Valuation results on assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss (excluding trading).

ING Group Annual Report 2017

197

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Unrealised gains and losses that relate to Available-for-sale investments recognised in Other comprehensive income are included in
the Revaluation reserve – Available-for-sale reserve and other.

Level 3 Financial assets and liabilities

Financial assets measured at fair value in the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2017 of EUR 193 billion includes an
amount of EUR 2.0 billion (1.1%) which is classified as Level 3 (31 December 2016: EUR 2.5 billion, being 1.2%). Changes in Level 3 from
31 December 2016 to 31 December 2017 are disclosed above in the table Changes in Level 3 Financial assets.
Financial liabilities measured at fair value in the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2017 of EUR 87 billion includes an
amount of EUR 1.2 billion (1.4%) which is classified as Level 3 (31 December 2016: EUR 1.5 billion, being 1.5%). Changes in Level 3 from
31 December 2016 to 31 December 2017 are disclosed above in the table ‘Changes in Level 3 Financial liabilities’.
Financial assets and liabilities in Level 3 include both assets and liabilities for which the fair value was determined using valuation
techniques that incorporate unobservable inputs and assets and liabilities for which the fair value was determined using quoted prices,
but have been adjusted to reflect that the market was not actively trading at or around the balance sheet date. Unobservable inputs
are inputs which are based on ING’s own assumptions about the factors that market participants would use in pricing an asset or
liability, developed based on the best information available in the circumstances. Unobservable inputs may include volatility,
correlation, spreads to discount rates, default rates and recovery rates, prepayment rates, and certain credit spreads. Valuation
techniques that incorporate unobservable inputs are sensitive to the inputs used.
Of the total amount of financial assets classified as Level 3 as at 31 December 2017 of EUR 2.0 billion (31 December 2016: EUR 2.5
billion), an amount of EUR 1.0 billion (49%) (31 December 2016: EUR 1.0 billion, being 42%) is based on unadjusted quoted prices in
inactive markets. As ING does not generally adjust quoted prices using its own inputs, there is no significant sensitivity to ING’s own
unobservable inputs.
Furthermore, Level 3 financial assets includes approximately EUR 0.4 billion (31 December 2016: EUR 0.5 billion) which relates to
financial assets that are part of structures that are designed to be fully neutral in terms of market risk. Such structures include various
financial assets and liabilities for which the overall sensitivity to market risk is insignificant. Whereas the fair value of individual
components of these structures may be determined using different techniques and the fair value of each of the components of these
structures may be sensitive to unobservable inputs, the overall sensitivity is by design not significant.
The remaining EUR 0.6 billion (31 December 2016: EUR 1.0 billion) of the fair value classified in Level 3 financial assets is established
using valuation techniques that incorporates certain inputs that are unobservable. This relates mainly to assets that are classified as
Available-for-sale investments, for which changes in fair value are recognised in shareholders’ equity and do not directly impact profit
or loss.
Of the total amount of financial liabilities classified as Level 3 as at 31 December 2017 of EUR 1.2 billion (31 December 2016: EUR 1.5
billion), an amount of EUR 0.8 billion (66%) (31 December 2016: EUR 0.9 billion, being 59%) is based on unadjusted quoted prices in
inactive markets. As ING does not generally adjust quoted prices using its own inputs, there is no significant sensitivity to ING’s own
unobservable inputs.
Furthermore, Level 3 financial liabilities includes approximately EUR 0.1 billion (31 December 2016: EUR 0.1 billion) which relates to
financial liabilities that are part of structures that are designed to be fully neutral in terms of market risk. As explained above, the fair
value of each of the components of these structures may be sensitive to unobservable inputs, but the overall sensitivity is by design
not significant.
The remaining EUR 0.3 billion (31 December 2016: EUR 0.5 billion) of the fair value classified in Level 3 financial liabilities is established
using valuation techniques that incorporates certain inputs that are unobservable.
The table below provides a summary of the valuation techniques, key unobservable inputs and the lower and upper range of such
unobservable inputs, by type of Level 3 asset/liability. The lower and upper range mentioned in the overview represent the lowest and
highest variance of the respective valuation input as actually used in the valuation of the different financial instruments. Amounts and
percentages stated are unweighted. The range can vary from period to period subject to market movements and change in Level 3
position. Lower and upper bounds reflect the variability of Level 3 positions and their underlying valuation inputs in the portfolio, but
do not adequately reflect their level of valuation uncertainty. For valuation uncertainty assessment, reference is made to section
Sensitivity analysis of unobservable inputs (Level 3).

ING Group Annual Report 2017

198

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Valuation techniques and range of unobservable inputs (Level 3)
Assets
2017

2016

386

180

Liabilities Valuation techniques
2017

Significant
unobservable inputs

2016

Lower range
2017

Upper range

2016

2017

2016

At fair value through
profit or loss
Debt securities
Equity securities
Loans and advances

4

4

20

326

Price based

Price (%)

0%

0%

161%

122%

Net asset value

Price (%)

0%

10%

0%

19%

Price based

Price (%)

1%

0%

54%

0%

3 Price based

Price (%)

0%

60%

101%

101%

1

Present value techniques Credit spread (bps)
Structured notes

6

101

125 Price based

Price (%)

Net asset value

Price (%)

Option pricing model

Equity volatility (%)

n.a

130

n.a

150

52%

52%

116%

111%

n.a

19%

n.a

19%

14%

16%

23%

34%

Equity/Equity correlation

0.5

0.0

0.7

0.8

Equity/FX correlation

0.2

–0.4

0.4

0.1

Dividend yield (%)

2%

1%

6%

5%

Interest rate volatility (%)

n.a

n.a

n.a

n.a

0.7

0.7

0.7

0.7

Present value techniques Implied correlation
Derivatives
– Rates

– FX
– Credit

490

486

485

477

642

479

10

33

48

Interest rate volatility
(bps)

23

22

300

300

Interest rate correlation

n.a

n.a

n.a

n.a

IR/INF correlation

n.a

0.5

n.a

0.5

Present value techniques Reset spread (%)

2%

2%

2%

2%

Prepayment rate (%)

5%

5%

10%

10%

Inflation rate (%)

4%

2%

4%

4%

688 Present value techniques Inflation rate (%)

4%

2%

4%

3%

2

0

424

1,596

457 Option pricing model

43 Present value techniques Credit spread (bps)

Implied correlation

0.7

0.7

1.0

1.0

12%

12%

12%

12%

Price (%)

n.a

99%

n.a

99%

Equity volatility (%)

5%

0%

129%

140%
1.0

Jump rate (%)
Price based
– Equity

161

258

128

208 Option pricing model

Equity/Equity correlation

0.1

–0.1

1.0

–0.9

–0.9

0.8

0.6

Dividend yield (%)

0%

0%

21%

13%

Commodity volatility (%)

9%

13%

42%

55%

Com/Com correlation

0.3

0.0

0.9

0.9

Com/FX correlation

–0.6

–0.5

–0.3

0.0

Price (%)

69%

0%

90%

99%

n.a

339

n.a

400

Weighted average life (yr)

n.a

1.6

n.a

3.2

Discounted cash flow

Annual Accounts

n.a

n.a

n.a

n.a

Multiplier method

Observable market
factors

Equity/FX correlation
– Other

1 Option pricing model

5

Available for sale
– Debt

14

Price based

55

Present value techniques Credit spread (bps)
– Equity

467

466

Comparable transactions
Total

2,034

ING Group Annual Report 2017

2,456

1,242

1,525

199

n.a

n.a

n.a

n.a

n.a

n.a

n.a

n.a

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Non-listed equity investments

Level 3 equity securities mainly include corporate investments, fund investments, real estate positions, and other equity securities
which are not traded in active markets. In the absence of an active market, fair values are estimated on the basis of the analysis of
fund managers reports, company’s financial position, future prospects, and other factors, considering valuations of similar positions or
by the reference to acquisition cost of the position. For equity securities best market practice will be applied using the most relevant
valuation method.
All non-listed equity investments, including investments in private equity funds, are subject to a standard review framework which
ensures that valuations reflect fair values.

Price

For securities where market prices are not available fair value is measured by comparison with observable pricing data from similar
instruments. Prices of 0% are distressed to the point that no recovery is expected, while prices significantly in excess of 100% or par
are expected to pay a good yield.

Credit spreads

Credit spread is the premium above a benchmark interest rate, typically LIBOR or relevant Treasury instrument, required by the
market participant to accept a lower credit quality. Higher credit spreads indicate lower credit quality and a lower value of an asset.

Volatility

Volatility is a measure for variation of the price of a financial instrument or other valuation input over time. Volatility is one of the key
inputs in option pricing models. Typically, the higher the volatility, the higher value of the option. Volatility varies by the underlying
reference (equity, commodity, foreign currency and interest rates), by strike, and maturity of the option. The minimum level of
volatility is 0% and there is no theoretical maximum.

Correlation

Correlation is a measure of dependence between two underlying references which is relevant for valuing derivatives and other
instruments which have more than one underlying reference. For example, correlation between underlying equity names may be a
relevant input parameter for basket equity option pricing models. High positive correlation (close to 1) indicates strong positive
(statistical) relationship between underlyings, implying they typically move in the same direction. High negative correlation, on the
other hand, implies that underlyings typically move in opposite directions.

Interest rates

Examples of interest rate related unobservable inputs are prepayment rates, reset rates and inflation rates.
Prepayment rate and reset spread are key inputs to mortgage linked prepayment swaps valuation. Prepayment rate is the estimated
rate at which mortgage borrowers will repay their mortgages early, e.g. 5% per year. Reset spread is the future spread at which
mortgages will re-price at interest rate reset dates.
Inflation rate is a key input to inflation linked instruments. Inflation linked instruments protect against price inflation and are
denominated and indexed to investment units. Interest payments would be based on the inflation index and nominal rate in order to
receive/pay the real rate of return. A rise in nominal coupon payments is a result of an increase in inflation expectations, real rates, or
both. As markets for these inflation linked derivatives are illiquid, the valuation parameters become unobservable.

Dividend yield

Dividend yield is an important input for equity option pricing models showing how much dividends a company is expected to pay out
each year relative to its share price. Dividend yields are generally expressed as an annualised percentage of share price.

Sensitivity analysis of unobservable inputs (Level 3)

Where the fair value of a financial instrument is determined using inputs which are unobservable and which have a more than
insignificant impact on the fair value of the instrument, the actual value of those inputs at the balance date may be drawn from a
range of reasonably possible alternatives. In line with market practice the upper and lower bounds of the range of alternative input
values reflect a 90% level of valuation certainty. The actual levels chosen for the unobservable inputs in preparing the annual accounts
are consistent with the valuation methodology used for fair valued financial instruments.
If ING had used input values from the upper and lower bound of this range of reasonable possible alternative input values when
valuing these instruments as of 31 December 2016, then the impact would have been higher or lower as indicated below. The purpose
of this disclosure is to present the possible impact of a change of unobservable inputs in the fair value of financial instruments where
unobservable inputs are significant to the valuation.
As ING has chosen to apply a 90% confidence level for its IFRS valuation of fair valued financial instruments, the downward valuation
uncertainty has become immaterial, whereas the potential upward valuation uncertainty, reflecting a potential profit, has increased.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

200

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

For more detail on the valuation of fair valued instruments, refer to the section ‘Risk Management – Market risk’, paragraph ‘Fair values
of financial assets and liabilities’ in this document.
In practice valuation uncertainty is measured and managed per exposure to individual valuation inputs (i.e. risk factors) at portfolio
level across different product categories. Where the disclosure looks at individual Level 3 inputs the actual valuation adjustments may
also reflect the benefits of portfolio offsets.
Because of the approach taken, the valuation uncertainty in the table below is broken down by related risk class rather than by
product.
In reality some valuation inputs are interrelated and it would be unlikely that all unobservable inputs would ever be simultaneously at
the limits of their respective ranges of reasonably possible alternatives. Therefore it can be assumed that the estimates in the table
below show a greater fair value uncertainty than the realistic position at year end assuming normal circumstances/normal markets.
Also, this disclosure does not attempt to indicate or predict future fair value movement. The numbers in isolation give limited
information as in most cases these Level 3 assets and liabilities should be seen in combination with other instruments (for example as
a hedge) that are classified as Level 2.
Sensitivity analysis of Level 3 instruments
Positive fair value Negative fair value
movements from
movements from
using reasonable
using reasonable
possible alternatives possible alternatives
2017

2016

2017

2016

14

14

14

14

Fair value through profit or loss
Equity (equity derivatives, structured notes)

222

262

Interest rates (Rates derivatives, FX derivatives)

56

80

Credit (Debt securities, Loans, structured notes, credit derivatives)

27

33

Equity

9

8

Debt

1

2

315

385

Available-for-sale

Other financial instruments

The fair values of the financial instruments carried at amortised cost in the statement of financial position, but for which fair values are
disclosed are determined as follows:
Methods applied in determining fair values of financial assets and liabilities (carried at amortised cost)
Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

Loans and advances to banks

633

3,534

9,855

11,135

16,577

14,271

27,065

28,940

Held-to-maturity investments

7,884

6,983

1,409

1,749

85

77

9,378

8,809

5,121

19,870

21,611

545,141

551,864

565,011

578,596

15,638

31,134

34,495

561,803

566,212

601,454

616,345

22,543

Financial Assets

Loans and advances to customers1
8,517

Financial liabilities
Deposits from banks1
Customer deposits1
Debt securities in issue
Subordinated loans

25,276

14,447

7,642

8,096

32,947

8,875

29
12,248

28,303

25,118

27,296

27,382

64,474

64,748

39,303

41,145

39,757

48,097

17,676

14,317

96,736

103,559

16,082

14,967

357

2,188

18

98

16,457

17,253

64,289

68,360

93,693

89,850

52,632

49,893

210,614

208,103

1 Financial assets and liabilities that are on demand are excluded from the fair value hierarchy as their fair value approximates the carrying value. In 2017,
comparative figures of customer deposits have been reclassified between the levels to conform with the current year presentation.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

201

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

b) Non-financial assets and liabilities

ING Group’s non-financial assets comprise Investments in associates and joint ventures, Property in own use, Investment properties
and Inventory as included in the statement of financial position in the line items Investments in associates and joint ventures, Property
and equipment, and Other assets respectively.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. For further information, reference is made to
Note 7 ’Investments in associates and joint ventures’. Other non-financial assets (Property in own use, and Investment properties) are
recognised at fair value at the balance sheet date.
As at 31 December 2017, the estimated fair value of Property in own use and Investment properties amounts to EUR 774 million
(2016: EUR 881 million) and EUR 65 million (2016: EUR 65 million) respectively and is categorised as Level 3 (2016: Level 3) of the fair
value hierarchy on the basis of methods applied in determining the fair values.
Amounts recognised in the statement of profit or loss relating to unrealised gains and losses during the year that relate to Level 3
non-financial assets are included in the statement of profit or loss as follows:
• Impairments on Property in own use are included in Other operating expenses - Impairments and reversals on property and
equipment and intangibles ; and
• Changes in the fair value of Investment properties are included in Investment income.
Unrealised gains and losses on Property in own use are included in the Revaluation reserve – Property in own use reserve.
For amounts recognised in the Statement of profit or loss and other changes in non-financial assets during the year, reference is made
to Note 8 ‘Property and equipment’ and Note 10 ‘Other assets’.
As at 31 December 2017, ING Group has no non-financial liabilities measured at fair value (2016: none).

38 Derivatives and hedge accounting
Use of derivatives and hedge accounting

As described in the sections ‘Risk management – Credit risk and Market risk’, ING Group uses derivatives (principally interest rate swaps
and cross currency interest rate swaps) for economic hedging purposes in the management of its asset and liability portfolios and
structural positions. The objective of economic hedging is to enter into positions with an opposite risk profile to an identified exposure
to reduce that exposure. The objective of ING Group’s hedging activities is to optimise the overall cost to the Group of accessing debt
capital markets and to mitigate the market risk which would otherwise arise from structural imbalances in the duration and other
profiles of its assets and liabilities. In addition, hedging activities are undertaken to hedge against the interest rate risk in the mortgage
offer period in relation to retail mortgages and to lock in the interest margin in relation to interest bearing assets and the related
funding.
The accounting treatment of hedge transactions varies according to the nature of the instrument hedged and whether the hedge
qualifies under the IFRS hedge accounting rules. Derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS are classified and accounted
for in accordance with the nature of the instrument hedged and the type of IFRS hedge model that is applicable. The three models
applicable under IFRS are: fair value hedge accounting, cash flow hedge accounting, and net investment hedge accounting. These are
described under the relevant headings below. The company’s detailed accounting policies for these three hedge models are set out in
Note 1 ‘Accounting policies’ in the section ‘Principles of valuation and determination of results’.
To qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS, strict criteria must be met. Certain hedges that are economically effective from a risk
management perspective do not qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS. The fair value changes of derivatives relating to such nonqualifying hedges are taken to the statement of profit or loss. However, in certain cases, the Group mitigates the statement of profit or
loss volatility by designating hedged assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. If hedge accounting is applied under IFRS,
it is possible that during the hedge a hedge relationship no longer qualifies for hedge accounting and hedge accounting cannot be
continued, even if the hedge remains economically effective. As a result, the volatility arising from undertaking economic hedging in
the statement of profit or loss may be higher than would be expected from an economic point of view.
With respect to exchange rate and interest rate derivative contracts, the notional or contractual amount of these instruments is
indicative of the nominal value of transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date; however they do not represent amounts at risk.
ING Group uses credit derivatives to manage its exposure to credit risk, including total return swaps and credit default swaps, to sell or
buy protection for credit risk exposures in the loan, investment, and trading portfolios. Hedge accounting is not applied in relation to
credit derivatives.

Fair value hedge accounting

ING Group’s fair value hedges principally consist of interest rate swaps and cross-currency interest rate swaps that are used to protect
against changes in the fair value of fixed-rate instruments due to movements in market interest rates.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

202

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Gains and losses on derivatives designated under fair value hedge accounting are recognised in the statement of profit or loss. The
effective portion of the fair value change on the hedged item is also recognised in the statement of profit or loss. As a result, only the
net accounting ineffectiveness has an impact on the net result.

Statement of profit or loss – Valuation results and net trading income
Fair value changes on derivatives designated under fair value hedge accounting
2017

Change in fair value of derivatives
Change in fair value of assets and liabilities (hedged items)
Net accounting ineffectiveness recognised in the Statement of profit or loss

2016

700

241

–793

–167

–93

74

The fluctuation in balances between 2016 and 2017 relate to the volatility in interest rate movements.

Statement of financial position – Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Fair values of outstanding derivatives designated under fair value hedge accounting
Positive fair values outstanding (Non-trading derivative assets)
Negative fair values outstanding (Non-trading derivative liabilities)

2017

2016

685

1,012

–1,089

–1,888

–404

–876

ING Group applies fair value hedge accounting for portfolio hedges of interest rate risk (macro hedging) under the EU carve-out of IFRS.
The EU ‘carve-out’ for macro hedging enables a group of derivatives (or proportions) to be viewed in combination and jointly
designated as the hedging instrument and removes some of the limitations in fair value hedge accounting relating to hedging core
deposits and under-hedging strategies. In retail operations, exposure on retail funding (savings and current accounts) and retail
lending (mortgages) is initially offset. The remaining exposure is hedged in a portfolio hedge, using the EU carve-out, in which a
portion of the mortgages is designated as a hedged item for hedge accounting purposes.

Cash flow hedge accounting

ING Group’s cash flow hedges principally consist of (forward) interest rate swaps and cross-currency interest rate swaps that are used
to protect against its exposure to variability in future interest cash flows on non-trading assets and liabilities that bear interest at
variable rates or are expected to be refunded or reinvested in the future. The amounts and timing of future cash flows, representing
both principal and interest flows, are projected for each portfolio of financial assets and liabilities, based on contractual terms and
other relevant factors including estimates of prepayments and defaults. The aggregate principal balances and interest cash flows for
the respective portfolios form the basis for identifying the notional amount subject to interest rate risk that is designated under cash
flow hedge accounting.
Gains and losses on the effective portions of derivatives designated under cash flow hedge accounting are recognised in Shareholders’
equity. Interest cash flows on these derivatives are recognised in the statement of profit or loss in net interest income consistent with
the manner in which the forecast cash flows affect net result. The gains and losses on ineffective portions of such derivatives are
recognised immediately in the statement of profit or loss.

Statement of changes in equity – Cash flow hedge reserve
Cash flow hedge reserve
2017

2016

–514

111

Cash flow hedge reserve as at 31 December, gross

335

1,015

Cash flow hedge reserve as at 31 December, after deferred tax

263

777

Effective portion of fair value changes on derivatives under cash flow hedges, after tax

ING Group Annual Report 2017

203

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

This cash flow hedge reserve will fluctuate with the fair value changes of the underlying derivatives and will be reflected in the
statement of profit or loss under Interest income/expense over the remaining term of the underlying hedged items. The cash flow
hedge reserve relates to a large number of derivatives and hedged items with varying maturities, up to 26 years, with the largest
concentrations in the range of 1 to 3 years.

Statement of financial position – Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Fair values of outstanding derivatives designated under cash flow hedge accounting
2017

Positive fair values outstanding (Non-trading derivative assets)
Negative fair values outstanding (Non-trading derivative liabilities)

2016

617

438

–339

–671

278

–233

Statement of profit or loss – Net interest income
Net interest income on cash flow hedge derivatives
2017

2016

Interest income on cash flow hedge derivatives

2,454

2,654

Interest expense on cash flow hedge derivatives

–1,968

–2,181

486

473

Accounting ineffectiveness on derivatives designated under cash flow hedge accounting resulted in a gain of EUR 44 million (2016: EUR
16 million loss) which was recognised in the statement of profit or loss, in the line Valuation results and net trading income.

Hedges of net investments in foreign operations

ING Group’s net investment hedges principally consist of derivatives (including currency forwards and swaps) and non-derivative
financial instruments such as foreign currency denominated funding that are used to protect against foreign currency exposures on
foreign subsidiaries.
Gains and losses on the effective portions of derivatives designated under net investment hedge accounting are recognised in
Shareholders’ equity. The balance in equity is recognised in the statement of profit or loss when the related foreign subsidiary is
disposed. The gains and losses on ineffective portions are recognised immediately in the statement of profit or loss.

Statement of financial position – Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Fair values of outstanding derivatives designated under net investment hedge accounting
2017

Positive fair values outstanding (Non-trading derivative assets)
Negative fair values outstanding (Non-trading derivative liabilities)

2016

29

73

–71

–33

–42

40

Accounting ineffectiveness recognised in the statement of profit or loss for the year ended 31 December 2017 on derivatives and nonderivatives designated under net investment hedge accounting was EUR 3 million (2016: nil).

ING Group Annual Report 2017

204

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

39 Assets by contractual maturity

Amounts presented in these tables by contractual maturity are the amounts as presented in the statement of financial position and
are discounted cash flows. Reference is made to the section ‘Risk Management – Funding and liquidity risk’.
Assets by contractual maturity
2017

Less than 1
month1

1–3
months

3–12
months

1–5
years

Over 5
years

Maturity
not
applicable

Total

Cash and balances with central banks

21,989

Loans and advances to banks

13,929

5,137

5,224

3,931

590

28,811

21,989

Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
– trading assets

63,857

14,016

12,667

12,619

13,589

116,748

– non-trading derivatives

124

147

213

789

958

2,231

– designated as at fair value through profit or loss

488

967

1,839

351

597

4,242

– available-for-sale

1,319

2,313

4,301

31,852

25,962

– held-to-maturity

1,020

127

657

2,975

4,564

9,343

62,842

18,414

40,350

163,360

289,569

574,535

92

367

1,010

1,469

8,520

1,517

2,479

869

535

309

14,229

2,889

2,889

174,088

42,638

67,822

217,113

336,364

8,191

846,216

Investments

Loans and advances to customers
Intangible assets
Other assets2
Remaining assets (for which maturities are not applicable)3
Total assets

3,983

69,730

1 Includes assets on demand.
2 Includes Other assets and Current and Deferred tax assets as presented in the Consolidated statement of financial position.
3 Included in remaining assets for which maturities are not applicable are property and equipment, and investments in associates and joint ventures. Due to their
nature remaining assets consist mainly of assets expected to be recovered after more than 12 months.

Assets by contractual maturity
2016

Less than 1
month1

1–3
months

3–12
months

1–5
years

Over 5
years

Maturity
not
applicable

Total

Cash and balances with central banks

18,144

Loans and advances to banks

14,638

4,373

5,414

3,779

654

28,858

47,218

19,236

13,722

16,967

17,361

114,504

28

29

85

793

1,555

2,490

326

1,440

1,996

769

568

5,099

2,713

3,543

6,020

36,838

29,775

166

2,374

3,360

2,851

8,751

56,151

17,187

42,515

162,805

285,002

563,660

145

290

1,049

1,484

9,538

1,776

2,721

855

850

296

16,036

3,143

3,143

148,756

47,750

74,992

226,456

338,616

8,511

845,081

18,144

Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
– trading assets
– non-trading derivatives
– designated as at fair value through profit or loss
Investments
– available-for-sale
– held-to-maturity
Loans and advances to customers
Intangible assets
Other assets2
Remaining assets (for which maturities are not applicable)3
Total assets

4,023

82,912

1 Includes assets on demand.
2 Includes Other assets and Current and Deferred tax assets, commodities, and precious metals (which have no maturity) as presented in the Consolidated
statement of financial position. ‘Other assets’ adjusted to conform to the current year presentation.
3 Included in remaining assets for which maturities are not applicable are property and equipment, and investments in associates and joint ventures. Due to their
nature remaining assets consist mainly of assets expected to be recovered after more than 12 months.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

205

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

40 Liabilities by maturity

The tables below include all financial liabilities by maturity based on contractual, undiscounted cash flows. Furthermore, the
undiscounted future coupon interest on financial liabilities payable is included in a separate line and in the relevant maturity bucket.
Derivative liabilities are included on a net basis if cash flows are settled net. For other derivative liabilities the contractual gross cash
flow payable is included.
Non-financial liabilities are included based on a breakdown of the amounts per the statement of financial position, by expected
maturity. Reference is made to the liquidity risk paragraph in the section ‘Risk Management – Funding and liquidity risk’ for a
description on how liquidity risk is managed.
Liabilities by maturity
Maturity
not
applicable

Less than 1
month1

1–3
months

3–12
months

1–5
years

Over 5
years

10,002

648

1,687

21,893

2,591

36,821

494,701

17,190

19,647

5,761

2,500

539,799

29,755

11,530

1,866

1,506

2,390

636

47,683

2,476

2,420

4,520

8,224

5,947

2,326

25,913

– non-trading derivatives

339

121

226

715

886

44

2,331

– designated at fair value through profit or loss

413

838

1,353

3,700

5,058

–147

11,215

3,296

14,657

26,434

37,717

12,249

1,733

96,086

2017

Deposits from banks
Customer deposits

Adjustment2

Total

Financial liabilities at fair value through profit
or loss
– other trading liabilities
– trading derivatives

Debt securities in issue
Subordinated loans
Financial liabilities

10,601

5,176

191

15,968

5,176

4,783

775,816

540,982

47,404

55,733

79,516

42,222

Other liabilities3

9,773

1,915

4,240

2,147

1,204

Non-financial liabilities

9,773

1,915

4,240

2,147

1,204

–

–

19,279

550,755

49,319

59,973

81,663

43,426

5,176

4,783

795,095

1,109

1,035

2,852

9,591

8,686

Total liabilities
Coupon interest due on financial liabilities

19,279

23,273

1 Includes liabilities on demand.
2 This column reconciles the contractual undiscounted cash flows on financial liabilities to the statement of financial position values. The adjustments mainly relate
to the impact of discounting, and for derivatives, to the fact that the contractual cash flows are presented on a gross basis (unless the cash flows are actually
settled net).
3 Includes Other liabilities, Current and deferred tax liabilities, and Provisions as presented in the Consolidated statement of financial position.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

206

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Liabilities by maturity
Maturity
not
applicable

Less than 1
month1

1–3
months

3–12
months

1–5
years

Over 5
years

11,874

506

2,060

14,324

3,200

476,373

16,521

20,698

6,720

2,617

13

522,942

26,101

12,334

1,096

1,910

1,908

525

43,874

3,172

3,153

7,495

13,785

11,602

86

39,293

– non-trading derivatives

378

192

700

1,844

1,478

–1,051

3,541

– designated at fair value through profit or loss

381

505

1,627

4,485

5,170

98

12,266

3,171

14,965

22,350

44,089

20,522

–1,863

103,234

1,043

749

2,010

5,985

7,204

232

17,223

49,219

56,775

89,167

52,482

7,204

–1,960

774,337

2016

Deposits from banks
Customer deposits

Adjustment2

Total
31,964

Financial liabilities at fair value through profit
or loss
– other trading liabilities
– trading derivatives

Debt securities in issue
Subordinated loans
Financial liabilities

521,450

Other liabilities3

10,403

1,943

4,428

2,201

1,370

Non-financial liabilities

10,403

1,943

4,428

2,201

1,370

–

–

20,345

531,853

51,162

61,203

91,368

53,852

7,204

–1,960

794,682

1,081

1,160

3,355

10,948

5,818

Total liabilities
Coupon interest due on financial liabilities

20,345

22,362

1 Includes liabilities on demand.
2 This column reconciles the contractual undiscounted cash flows on financial liabilities to the statement of financial position values. The adjustments mainly relate
to the impact of discounting, and for derivatives, to the fact the contractual cash flows are presented on a gross basis (unless the cash flows are actually settled
net).
3 Includes Other liabilities, Current and deferred tax liabilities, and Provisions as presented in the Consolidated statement of financial position.

41 Assets not freely disposable

The assets not freely disposable consist primarily of Loans and advances to customers pledged to secure Debt securities in issue,
deposits from De Nederlandsche Bank (the Dutch Central Bank) and other banks and serve to secure margin accounts and are used for
other purposes required by law. The assets not freely disposable are as follows:
Assets not freely disposable
2017

2016

– Cash and balances with central banks

1,569

1,353

– Loans and advances to banks

3,730

6,054

Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss

1,072

447

Banks

Investments
Loans and advances to customers
Other assets

885

825

76,083

70,457

813

935

84,152

80,071

In some jurisdictions ING Bank N.V. has an obligation to maintain a reserve with central banks. As at 31 December 2017, the minimum
mandatory reserve deposits with various central banks amount to EUR 8,503 million (2016: EUR 9,055 million).
Loans and advances to customers that have been pledged as collateral for Debt securities in issue and for liquidity purposes, amount
in the Netherlands to EUR 50 billion (2016: EUR 49 billion), in Germany to EUR 12 billion (2016: EUR 12 billion), in Belgium EUR 10 billion
(2016: EUR 5 billion), in Australia to EUR 2 billion (2016: EUR 2 billion) and in the United States to EUR 1 billion (2016: EUR 1 billion).
The table does not include assets relating to securities lending as well as sale and repurchase transactions. Reference is made to Note
42 ‘Transfer of financial assets’.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

207

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

42 Transfer of financial assets

The majority of ING's financial assets that have been transferred, but do not qualify for derecognition are debt instruments used in
securities lending or sale and repurchase transactions. Reference is made to Note 48 ‘Structured entities’.
Transfer of financial assets not qualifying for derecognition
Securities lending
Equity
2017

2016

3,995

1,428

2

2

Sale and repurchase

Debt
2017

2016

Equity

Debt

2017

2016

2017

2016

2,120

4,106

6,864

8,965

621

1,427

Transferred assets at carrying amount
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Investments
Loans and advances to customers

25

Associated liabilities at carrying amount
Deposits from banks

n.a

n.a

n.a

n.a

Customer deposits

n.a

n.a

n.a

n.a

3,985

1,443

Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss

2,148

4,635

2,599

4,280

The table above include the associated liabilities which are reported after offsetting, compared to the gross positions of the
encumbered assets.
Included in the table above, are the carrying amounts of transferred assets under repurchase agreements, and securities lending that
do not qualify for derecognition.
The table above do not include assets transferred to consolidated securitisation entities as the related assets remain recognised in the
consolidated statement of financial position.

43 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities

The following tables include information about rights to offset and the related arrangements. The amounts included consist of all
recognised financial instruments that are presented net in the statement of financial position under the IFRS offsetting requirements
(legal right to offset and intention to net settle) and amounts presented gross in the statement of financial position but subject to
enforceable master netting arrangements or similar arrangement.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

208

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements
Related amounts not offset
in the statement of financial
position

Gross
amounts of
recognised
financial
assets

2017

Statement of financial
position line item

Gross
amounts of
Net
recognised amounts of
financial
financial
liabilities
assets
offset in presented
the
in the
statement statement
of financial of financial
position
position

Financial
instruments

Cash and
financial
instruments
received as
collateral Net amount

Financial instrument

Loans and advances to banks Reverse repurchase, securities
borrowing and similar agreements

1,838

Other

1,838

7

–7

1,845

–7

1,838

20,878

–760

20,118

1,728

110

–

1,728

110

18,427

219

1,472

Financial assets at fair value
through profit or loss
Trading assets

Derivatives
Reverse repurchase, securities
borrowing and similar agreements

Non-trading derivatives

Loans and advances to
customers

Derivatives

68,050

–14,475

53,575

1,068

52,456

51

88,928

–15,235

73,693

19,495

52,675

1,523

45,176

–43,819

1,357

1,238

217

–98

45,176

–43,819

1,357

1,238

217

–98

Reverse repurchase, securities
borrowing and similar agreements
Other

Other items where offsetting
is applied in the statement of
financial position

409

–209

200

157,892

–156,015

1,877

1,018

302

557

158,301

–156,224

2,077

1,018

502

557

6,860

–6,366

494

–5,929

4,208

1,721

–

–

–

–5,929

4,208

1,721

301,110

–221,651

79,459

15,822

59,330

4,307

Impact of enforceable master
netting arrangements or
similar arrangements1
Derivatives

Total financial assets

200

494

1 The line ‘Impact of enforceable master netting agreements or similar arrangements’ contains derivative positions under the same master netting arrangements
being presented in different statement of financial position line items.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

209

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements
Related amounts not offset
in the statement of financial
position

Gross
amounts of
recognised
financial
assets

2016

Statement of financial
position line item

Gross
amounts of
Net
recognised amounts of
financial
financial
liabilities
assets
offset in presented
the
in the
statement statement
of financial of financial
position
position

Financial
instruments

Cash and
financial
instruments
received as
collateral Net amount

Financial instrument

Loans and advances to banks Reverse repurchase, securities
borrowing and similar agreements

173

–95

3

–3

176

–98

78

–

78

–

28,511

–913

27,598

25,532

147

1,919

Other

78

78

Financial assets at fair value
through profit or loss
Trading assets

Derivatives
Reverse repurchase, securities
borrowing and similar agreements

Non-trading derivatives

Loans and advances to
customers

Derivatives

Other

Other items where offsetting
is applied in the statement of
financial position

61,245

–19,413

41,832

36

41,555

241

89,756

–20,326

69,430

25,568

41,702

2,160

57,384

–55,687

1,697

1,499

–5

203

57,384

–55,687

1,697

1,499

–5

203

387

4,103

387

4,103

191,453

–186,963

4,490

191,453

–186,963

4,490

–

6,326

–5,846

480

15

–7,300

4,743

2,557

–

–

–

–7,300

4,743

2,557

345,095

–268,920

76,175

19,782

46,905

9,488

Impact of enforceable master
netting arrangements or
similar arrangements1
Derivatives

Total financial assets

465

1 The line ‘Impact of enforceable master netting agreements or similar arrangements’ contains derivative positions under the same master netting arrangements
being presented in different statement of financial position line items.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

210

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements
Related amounts not offset
in the statement of financial
position

Gross
amounts of
recognised
financial
liabilities

2017

Statement of financial
position line item
Deposits from banks

Financial
instruments

Cash and
financial
instruments
pledged as
collateral Net amount

Financial instrument
Repurchase, securities lending and
similar agreements

4

Other

Customer deposits

Gross
Net
amounts of amounts of
recognised
financial
financial
liabilities
assets presented
offset in the
in the
statement statement
of financial of financial
position
position

Repurchase, securities lending and
similar agreements
Corporate deposits
Other

4

68

–8

60

72

–8

64

4
60
–

4

60

209

–209

11,508

–11,022

486

156,465

–144,991

11,474

1,021

10,453

168,182

–156,222

11,960

1,021

10,939

21,356

–975

20,381

19,292

486

Financial liabilities at fair
value through profit or loss
Trading liabilities

Derivatives
Repurchase, securities lending and
similar agreements

Non-trading derivatives

Derivatives

Other items where offsetting
is applied in the statement of
financial position

787

51,445

–14,475

36,970

1,068

35,792

110

72,801

–15,450

57,351

20,360

36,094

897

46,765

–45,251

1,514

1,261

125

128

5,393

–4,720

673

–6,820

6,228

592

–

–

–

–6,820

6,228

592

293,213

–221,651

71,562

15,822

42,451

13,289

Impact of enforceable master
netting arrangements or
similar arrangements1
Derivatives

Total financial liabilities

302

673

1 The line ‘Impact of enforceable master netting agreements or similar arrangements’ contains derivative positions under the same master netting arrangements
being presented in different statement of financial position line items.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

211

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements
Related amounts not offset
in the statement of financial
position

Gross
amounts of
recognised
financial
liabilities

2016

Statement of financial
position line item
Deposits from banks

Financial
instruments

Cash and
financial
instruments
pledged as
collateral Net amount

Financial instrument
Repurchase, securities lending and
similar agreements

102

–95

7

7

23

–3

20

20

125

–98

27

–

36

36

11,773

–8,595

3,178

3,178

189,496

–178,368

11,128

11,128

201,305

–186,963

14,342

36

–

14,306

30,102

–997

29,105

27,852

146

1,107

Other

Customer deposits

Gross
Net
amounts of amounts of
recognised
financial
financial
liabilities
assets presented
offset in the
in the
statement statement
of financial of financial
position
position

Repurchase, securities lending and
similar agreements
Corporate deposits
Other

36

–

27

Financial liabilities at fair
value through profit or loss
Trading liabilities

Derivatives
Repurchase, securities lending and
similar agreements

Non-trading derivatives

Derivatives

Other items where offsetting
is applied in the statement of
financial position

46,695

–19,415

27,280

36

27,102

142

76,797

–20,412

56,385

27,888

27,248

1,249

59,510

–56,975

2,535

2,343

–153

345

5,041

–4,472

569

28

–10,513

8,047

2,466

–

–

–

–10,513

8,047

2,466

342,778

–268,920

73,858

19,782

35,142

18,934

Impact of enforceable master
netting arrangements or
similar arrangements1
Derivatives

Total financial liabilities

541

1 The line ‘Impact of enforceable master netting agreements or similar arrangements’ contains derivative positions under the same master netting arrangements
being presented in different statement of financial position line items.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

212

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

44 Contingent liabilities and commitments

In the normal course of business, ING Group is party to activities where risks are not reflected in whole or in part in the consolidated
annual accounts. In response to the needs of its customers, the Group offers financial products related to loans. These products
include traditional off-balance sheet credit-related financial instruments.
Contingent liabilities and commitments
Less than 1
month
2017

2016

1–3 months
2017

2016

3–12 months
2017

2016

1–5 years
2017

2016

Over 5 years
2017

2016

Maturity not
applicable
2017

2016

Total
2017

2016

1

1

3,526

23,911

24,871

12

15,533

13,546

309

281

348

39,726

38,766

356

404

104,269

98,554

Contingent
liabilities in respect
of
– discounted bills
– guarantees
– irrevocable
letters of credit
– other

1

1

15,647

18,536

571

677

944

965

2,560

1,167

4,189

9,453

6,583

4,746

5,973

1,146

824

176

154

12

58

39

25,159

25,158

223
5,317

6,650

2,090

1,790

2,959

1,321

Guarantees issued
by ING Groep N.V.
Irrevocable
facilities

4,201

3,847

356

404

56,459

59,214

2,150

2,587

7,504

4,832

30,331

22,606

7,825

9,315

81,618

84,372

7,467

9,237

9,594

6,622

33,290

23,927

12,382

13,566

–

–

–

– 144,351 137,724

Guarantees relate both to credit and non-credit substitute guarantees. Credit substitute guarantees are guarantees given by ING
Group in respect of credit granted to customers by a third party. Many of them are expected to expire without being drawn on and
therefore do not necessarily represent future cash outflows. In addition to the items included in contingent liabilities, ING Group has
issued guarantees as a participant in collective arrangements of national industry bodies and as a participant in government required
collective guarantee schemes which apply in different countries.
Irrevocable letters of credit mainly secure payments to third parties for a customer’s foreign and domestic trade transactions in order
to finance a shipment of goods. ING Group’s credit risk in these transactions is limited since these transactions are collateralised by the
commodity shipped and are of a short duration.
Other contingent liabilities include acceptances of bills and are of a short-term nature. Other contingent liabilities also include
contingent liabilities resulting from the operations of the Real Estate business including obligations under development and
construction contracts. Furthermore other contingent liabilities include a contingent liability in connection with a possible Dutch tax
obligation that relates to the deduction from Dutch taxable profit for losses incurred by ING Bank in the United Kingdom in previous
years. The existence of this obligation will be confirmed only by the occurrence of future profits in the United Kingdom.
Reference is made to Parent company annual accounts – Notes to the parent company annual accounts, Note 13 ‘Other’ for further
information on Guarantees issued by ING Groep N.V.
Irrevocable facilities mainly constitute unused portions of irrevocable credit facilities granted to corporate clients. Many of these
facilities are for a fixed duration and bear interest at a floating rate. ING Group’s credit risk and interest rate risk in these transactions is
limited. The unused portion of irrevocable credit facilities is partly secured by customers’ assets or counter-guarantees by the central
governments and exempted bodies under the regulatory requirements. Irrevocable facilities also include commitments made to
purchase securities to be issued by governments and private issuers.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

213

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Furthermore, ING Group leases assets from third parties under operating leases as lessee. The future rental commitments to be paid
under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Future rental commitments for operating lease contracts
2017

2017

2016

307

2018

268

179

2019

195

151

2020

165

129

2021

152

132

Years after 2021

472

344

45 Legal proceedings

ING and its consolidated subsidiaries are involved in governmental, regulatory, arbitration and legal proceedings and investigations in
the Netherlands and in a number of foreign jurisdictions, including the US, involving claims by and against them which arise in the
ordinary course of their businesses, including in connection with their activities as lenders, broker-dealers, underwriters, issuers of
securities and investors and their position as employers and taxpayers. In certain of such proceedings, very large or indeterminate
amounts are sought, including punitive and other damages. While it is not feasible to predict or determine the ultimate outcome of all
pending or threatened governmental, regulatory, arbitration and legal proceedings and investigations, ING is of the opinion that some
of the proceedings and investigations set out below may have or have in the recent past had a significant effect on the financial
position, profitability or reputation of ING and/or ING and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Criminal investigations: ING Bank is the subject of criminal investigations by Dutch authorities regarding various requirements related
to client on-boarding, money laundering and corrupt practices. ING Group has also received related information requests from US
authorities. ING Group and ING Bank are cooperating with such ongoing investigations and requests. Management has concluded
under IFRS that it is more likely than not that a present obligation per 31 December 2017 exists and that an outflow of resources is
probable, but was not able to estimate reliably the possible timing, scope or amounts of any fines, penalties and/or other outcome,
which could be significant. ING expects to receive more information from the Dutch authorities concerning the potential consequences
of their investigation in the first half of 2018.
Tax cases: Because of the geographic spread of its business, ING may be subject to tax audits, investigations and procedures in
numerous jurisdictions at any point in time. Although ING believes that it has adequately provided for all its tax positions, the ultimate
resolution of these audits, investigations and procedures may result in liabilities which are different from the amounts recognised. ING
has also identified issues in connection with its US tax information reporting and withholding obligations in respect of prior
periods. While a provision has been recorded, the review of such issues is ongoing.
Litigation regarding products of a former subsidiary in Mexico: Proceedings in which ING is involved include complaints and lawsuits
concerning the performance of certain interest sensitive products that were sold by a former subsidiary of ING in Mexico. A provision
has been taken in the past.
SIBOR – SOR litigation: In July 2016, investors in derivatives tied to the Singapore Interbank Offer Rate (‘SIBOR’) filed a US class action
complaint in the New York District Court alleging that several banks, including ING, conspired to rig the prices of derivatives tied to
SIBOR and the Singapore Swap Offer Rate (‘SOR’). The lawsuit refers to investigations by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (‘MAS’)
and other regulators, including the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission (‘CFTC’), in relation to rigging prices of SIBOR- and SORbased derivatives. In April 2017, the New York District Court issued an oral ruling dismissing all claims; a corresponding written ruling
was issued in August 2017. In September 2017, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint. Defendants moved to dismiss the amended
complaint. Currently, it is not possible to provide an estimate of the (potential) financial effect of this claim.
Claims regarding accounts with predecessors of ING Bank Turkey: ING Bank Turkey has received numerous claims from (former)
customers of legal predecessors of ING Bank Turkey. The claims are based on offshore accounts held with these banks, which banks
were seized by the Savings Deposit Insurance Fund (SDIF’) prior to the acquisition of ING Bank Turkey in 2007 from Oyak. SDIF has also
filed various lawsuits against ING Bank Turkey to claim compensation from ING Bank Turkey, with respect to amounts paid out to
offshore account holders so far. ING Bank had initiated an arbitration procedure against OYAK in which ING Bank sought to be held
harmless for these claims. The arbitration court dismissed ING’s prayers for relief. At this moment it is not possible to assess the
outcome of these procedures nor to provide an estimate of the (potential) financial effect of these claims.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

214

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

VEB Fortis claim: In January 2011, the Dutch Association of Stockholders (Vereniging van Effectenbezitters, ‘VEB’) issued a writ alleging
that investors were misled by the prospectus that was issued with respect to the September 2007 rights issue of Fortis N.V. (now
Ageas N.V.) against Ageas N.V., the underwriters of such rights issue, including ING Bank, and former directors of Fortis N.V. According
to the VEB the prospectus shows substantive incorrect and misleading information. The VEB stated that the impact and the risks of the
sub-prime crisis for Fortis and Fortis’ liquidity position were reflected incorrectly in the prospectus. The VEB requested a declaratory
decision stating that the summoned parties acted wrongfully and are therefore responsible for the damages suffered by the investors
in Fortis. In March 2016, Ageas, VEB and certain other claimants announced that the claim in relation to Fortis has been settled. Ageas
has agreed to pay EUR 1.2 billion to investors as compensation, provided that the Amsterdam Court of Appeal declares the settlement
to be binding. According to the settlement documentation, as filed by Ageas with the Court of Appeal in May 2016, the settlement
agreement contains a third-party clause by which the banks will also be released from the claims made by VEB and certain other
claimants, if the settlement becomes unconditional. In June 2017, the Amsterdam Court of Appeal has given an interim ruling that the
proposed settlement agreement between Ageas and the VEB cannot be declared binding upon all investors in its current form. The
Court of Appeal requested in particular changes in relation to the level of compensation awarded to investors who are a member of
the VEB and those who are not. In December 2017, Ageas and the VEB filed a revised settlement agreement with the Court of Appeal
making amendments to the settlement agreement. In February 2018, the Court of Appeal requested further information on the level
of compensation awarded to the VEB itself. The VEB have to file their reply before 6 March 2018. A court hearing has been scheduled
for 16 March 2018 to discuss the merits of the settlement agreement, in particular the level of compensation, in more detail.
Medical insurance coverage claim by (former) Belgian employees: A number of retired employees of ING Belgium have initiated legal
proceedings against ASCEL (a non-profit organisation established by ING Belgium that provided medical insurance coverage to current
and retired employees till the beginning of 2015 via a subdivision of ASCEL: FMC) and ING Belgium following the decision to externalise
this medical insurance coverage which resulted in an increase of premium. In a decision of September 2016, the Court has considered
that FMC has validly been closed but that, as the medical coverage qualifies as an insurance contract not linked with the professional
activity of the claimants, ING could not unilaterally terminate the agreement between FMC and the pensioners. In October 2017, ING
reached an agreement with the claimants to settle this case. In January 2018, this settlement has entered into force for all retired
employees who are insured with the external provider. This settlement will be paid out of the existing provision.
Interest rate derivatives claims: ING is involved in several legal proceedings in the Netherlands with respect to interest rate derivatives
that were sold to clients in connection with floating interest rate loans in order to hedge the interest rate risk of the loans. These
proceedings are based on several legal grounds, depending on the facts and circumstances of each specific case, inter alia alleged
breach of duty of care, insufficient information provided to the clients on the product and its risks and other elements related to the
interest rate derivatives that were sold to clients. In some cases, the court has ruled in favour of the claimants and awarded damages,
annulled the interest rate derivative or ordered repayment of certain amounts to the claimants. The total amounts that need to be
repaid or compensated in some cases still need to be determined. ING may decide to appeal against adverse rulings. Although the
outcome of the pending litigation and similar cases that may be brought in the future is uncertain, it is possible that the courts may
ultimately rule in favour of the claimants in some or all of such cases. A provision has been taken. However, the aggregate financial
impact of the current and future litigation could become material.
As requested by the AFM, ING has reviewed a significant part of the files of clients who bought interest rate derivatives. In December
2015, the AFM concluded that Dutch banks may have to re-assess certain client files, potentially including certain derivative contracts
that were terminated prior to April 2014 or other client files. As advised by the AFM, the Minister of Finance appointed a Committee of
independent experts (the ‘Committee’) which has established a uniform recovery framework for Dutch SME clients with interest rate
derivatives. ING has adopted this recovery framework and will reassess individual files against this framework. ING has taken an
additional provision for the financial consequences of the recovery framework. In 2017, ING has informed the majority of the relevant
clients whether they are in scope of the recovery framework, and thus eligible for compensation, or not. Due to the fact that the
execution of the framework encountered delay, ING has offered advance payments to customers out of the existing provision.
Interest surcharges claims: ING received complaints and is involved in litigation with natural persons (natuurlijke personen) in the
Netherlands regarding increases in interest surcharges with respect to several credit products, including but not limited to residential
property (eigenwoningfinanciering). ING is reviewing the relevant product portfolio. Although the review is still ongoing, a provision has
been taken for certain of these complaints.
Criminal proceedings regarding cash company financing: In June 2017, a Belgian criminal Court ruled that ING Luxembourg assisted
third parties in 2000 to commit a tax fraud in the context of the purchase of the shares of a cash company. The Court condemned ING
Luxembourg among others to a penal fine of EUR 120,000 (suspended for half of the total amount). The court also condemned ING
Luxembourg jointly and severally with other parties, to pay EUR 31.48 million (to be increased with the legal interests) to the
bankruptcy trustee of the cash company. A provision has been recorded. In July 2017, ING Luxembourg filed an appeal against this
judgment, which is currently pending. In another case the Belgian authorities are also investigating ING Luxembourg for allegedly
assisting third parties in 2001 to commit tax fraud in the context of the purchase of the shares of a cash company. For this case, a
provision has been recorded by ING Luxembourg as well. The outcome of those cases is uncertain.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

215

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Mortgage expenses claims: ING Spain has received claims and is involved in procedures with customers regarding reimbursement of
expenses associated with the formalization of mortgages. In all but two court proceeding in first instance the expense clause of the
mortgage contract has been declared null and all or part of the expenses were ordered to be reimbursed by ING Spain. The courts in
first instance have applied in their rulings different criteria regarding the reimbursement of expenses. ING Spain has filed an appeal
against a number of these court decisions. ING Spain has also been included, together with other Spanish banks, in a class action filed
by a customer association. The outcome of the pending litigation and similar cases that may be brought in the future is uncertain. A
provision has been taken. However, the aggregate financial impact of the current and future litigation could change and will depend
on, amongst others, an expected future ruling by the Spanish Supreme Court regarding the expenses that should be reimbursed by
the banks.
Imtech claim: In January 2018, ING Bank received a claim from Stichting ImtechClaim.nl and Imtech Shareholders Action Group B.V. on
behalf of certain (former) shareholders of Imtech N.V. (‘Imtech’). The claimants allege inter alia that shareholders were misled by the
prospectus of the rights issues of Imtech in July 2013 and October 2014. ING Bank, being one of the underwriters of the rights issues, is
held liable by the claimants for the damages that investors in Imtech would have suffered. ING Bank responded to the claimants
denying any and all responsibility in relation to the allegations made in the letter.

46 Consolidated companies and business acquired and divested
Acquisitions
There were no significant acquisitions in 2017, 2016 and 2015.

Divestments effective in 2017

There were no significant divestments, of consolidated companies, in 2017.

Divestments effective in 2016

There were no significant divestments, of consolidated companies, in 2016.

Other

For information on transactions related to ING Group’s shareholding in NN Group, reference is made to Note 27 ‘Discontinued
operations’, and Note 49 ‘Related parties’.

Divestments effective in 2015
NN Group

A number of divestment transactions resulted in a further decrease in the ownership of ING Group in NN Group to 25.75% from 68.14%
at 31 December 2014. NN Group was deconsolidated and accounted for as an Investment in associate held for sale. Reference is made
to Note 27 ‘Discontinued operations.

Other

In 2015 the merger between ING Vysya and Kotak Mahindra Bank was completed and the legal entity ING Vysya Bank ceased to exist.
As a result of this transaction, ING holds a stake in the combined company which operates under the Kotak brand.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

216

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Most significant companies divested in 2015
2015

NN Group

General
Primary line of business

Insurance

Sales proceeds
Cash proceeds1

1,148

Investment retained in NN Group2

3,612

Sales proceeds

4,760

Assets
Cash and cash equivalents

9,238

Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss

46,425

Available-for-sale investments

76,529

Loans and advances to customers

28,713

Reinsurance contracts

266

Intangible assets

177

Deferred acquisition costs

1,509

Miscellaneous other assets

6,204

Liabilities
Insurance and investment contracts

121,721

Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss

2,105

Miscellaneous other liabilities

24,159

Net assets

21,076

%

disposed2

54.8%

Net assets disposed

11,543

Loss on disposal3,4

–1,224

1 Cash outflow/inflow on group companies in the statement of cash flow included, in addition to the cash amounts in this table, also cash outflows/inflows on
individually insignificant disposals.
2 IFRS required the derecognition of the subsidiary and the recognition of the respective retained investments in NN Group of 42.43% at the fair value on the date of
disposal.
3 The loss on disposal only reflects the impact on the statement of profit or loss of the transaction that resulted in derecognition of the company and includes the
sales proceeds, the net assets disposed, the expenses directly related to the disposal and the realisation of unrealised reserves.
4 The portion of the loss attributable to measuring the retained investment in NN Group at its fair value amounted to EUR –5,412 million.

47 Principal subsidiaries, investments in associates and joint ventures

For the majority of ING’s principal subsidiaries, ING Bank N.V. has control because it either directly or indirectly owns more than half of
the voting power. For subsidiaries in which the interest held is below 50%, control exists based on the combination of ING’s financial
interest and its rights from other contractual arrangements which result in control over the operating and financial policies of the
entity.
For each of the subsidiaries listed, the voting rights held equal the proportion of ownership interest and consolidation by ING is based
on the majority of ownership.
For the principal investments in associates and joint ventures ING Group has significant influence but not control. Significant influence
generally results from a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights, but also the ability to participate in the financial
and operating policies through situations including, but not limited to one or more of the following:
• Representation on the board of directors;
• Participation in the policymaking process; and
• Interchange of managerial personnel.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

217

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

The principal subsidiaries, investments in associates and joint ventures of ING Groep N.V. and their statutory place of incorporation or
primary place of business are as follows:
Principal subsidiaries, investments in associates and joint ventures
Proportion of ownership
and interest held
by the Group
2017

2016

the Netherlands

100%

100%

the Netherlands

100%

100%

Amsterdam

the Netherlands

100%

100%

Record Bank

Brussels

Belgium

100%

100%

ING Belgium S.A./N.V.

Brussels

Belgium

100%

100%

ING Luxembourg S.A.

Luxembourg City

Luxembourg

100%

100%

ING-DiBa AG

Frankfurt am Main

Germany

100%

100%

ING Bank Slaski S.A.

Katowice

Poland

ING Financial Holdings Corporation

Delaware

ING Bank A.S.
ING Bank (Australia) Ltd
ING Bank (Eurasia) Joint stock company

Subsidiary

Statutory place of Incorporation

Country of operation

ING Bank N.V.

Amsterdam

Bank Mendes Gans N.V.

Amsterdam

ING Lease (Nederland) B.V.

75%

75%

United States of America

100%

100%

Istanbul

Turkey

100%

100%

Sydney

Australia

100%

100%

Moscow

Russia

100%

100%

Bangkok

Thailand

30%

30%

Investments in associates and joint
ventures
TMB Public Company Limited

48 Structured entities

ING Group’s activities involve transactions with various structured entities (SE) in the normal course of its business. A structured entity
is an entity that has been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity,
such as when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual
arrangements. ING Group’s involvement in these entities varies and includes both debt financing and equity financing of these entities
as well as other relationships. Based on its accounting policies, as disclosed in the section Principles of valuation and determination of
results of these annual accounts, ING establishes whether these involvements result in no significant influence, significant influence,
joint control or control over the structured entity.
The structured entities over which ING can exercise control are consolidated. ING may provide support to these consolidated
structured entities as and when appropriate. However, this is fully reflected in the consolidated annual accounts of ING Group as all
assets and liabilities of these entities are included and off-balance sheet commitments are disclosed.
ING’s activities involving structured entities are explained below in the following categories:
1 Consolidated ING originated Liquidity management securitisation programmes (Lions);
2 Consolidated ING originated Covered bond programme (CBC);
3 Consolidated ING sponsored Securitisation programme (Mont Blanc);
4 Unconsolidated Securitisation programme; and
5 Other structured entities.

1. Consolidated ING originated Liquidity management securitisation programmes (Lions)

ING Group enters into liquidity management securitisation programmes in order to obtain funding and improve liquidity. Within the
programme ING Group sells ING originated assets to a structured entity. The underlying exposures include residential mortgages in the
Netherlands, Germany, Belgium, Spain, Italy, and Australia.
The structured entity issues securitised notes (traditional securitisations) which are eligible collateral for central bank liquidity
purposes. In most programmes ING Group acts as investor of the securitised notes. ING Group continues to consolidate these
structured entities if it is deemed to control the entities.
The structured entity issues securitisation notes in two tranches, one subordinated tranche and one senior tranche, rated AAA by a
rating agency. The AAA tranche can subsequently be used by ING Group as collateral in the money market for secured borrowings.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

218

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

ING Bank originated various securitisations, as at 31 December 2017 these consisted of approximately EUR 56 billion of AAA rated
notes and subordinated notes, of which approximately EUR 7 billion were issued externally. The underlying exposures are residential
mortgages and SME loans. Apart from the third party funding, these securitisations did not impact ING Bank’s Consolidated statement
of financial position and profit or loss.
In 2017, there are no non-controlling interests as part of the securitisation structured entities that are significant to ING Group. ING
Group for the majority of the securitisation vehicles provides the funding for the entity except for EUR 7 billion.

2. Consolidated ING originated Covered bond programme (CBC)

ING Group has entered into a covered bond programme. Under the covered bond programme ING issues bonds. The payment of
interest and principal is guaranteed by the ING administered structured entities, ING Covered Bond Company B.V., and ING SB Covered
Bond Company B.V. In order for these entities to fulfil their guarantee, ING legally transfers mainly Dutch mortgage loans originated by
ING. Furthermore ING offers protection against deterioration of the mortgage loans. The entities are consolidated by ING Group.
Covered bond programme
Fair value pledged
mortgage loans

Dutch Covered Bond Companies

Cash balance
structured entity

2017

2016

2017

41,062

43,931

323

2016

39

41,062

43,931

323

39

In general, the third-party investors in securities issued by the structured entity have recourse only to the assets of the entity and not
to the assets of ING Group.

3. Consolidated ING sponsored Securitisation programme (Mont Blanc)

In the normal course of business, ING Group structures financing transactions for its clients by assisting them in obtaining sources of
liquidity by selling (also referred to as factoring) the clients’ receivables or other financial assets to an ING sponsored SPE.
The transactions are funded by the ING Group administered multi seller Asset Backed Commercial Paper (ABCP) conduit Mont Blanc
Capital Corporation (Mont Blanc), which funds itself in the ABCP market. Mont Blanc does not have non-controlling interests that are
significant to ING Group. ING Group facilitates these transactions by providing structuring, accounting, funding and operations services.
The types of assets currently in Mont Blanc include trade receivables, consumer finance receivables, credit card receivables, motor
vehicle loans, and residential mortgage backed securities (RMBS).
ING Group supports the commercial paper programmes by providing the SPE with short-term liquidity facilities. These liquidity facilities
primarily cover temporary disruptions in the commercial paper market. Once drawn these facilities bear normal credit risk. A number
of programmes are supported by granting structured liquidity facilities to the SPE, in which ING Group covers at least some of the
credit risk incorporated in these programmes itself (in addition to normal liquidity facilities), and might suffer credit losses as a
consequence. Furthermore, under a Programme Wide Credit Enhancement ING Group guarantees to a limited amount all remaining
losses incorporated in the SPE to the commercial paper investors.
The liquidity facilities, including programme wide enhancements, provided to Mont Blanc are EUR 1,139 million (2016: EUR 812 million).
The drawn liquidity amount is nil as at 31 December 2017 (2016: nil).
The normal non-structured standby liquidity facilities and the structured facilities are reported under irrevocable facilities. All facilities,
which vary in risk profile, are granted to the SPE subject to normal ING Group credit and liquidity risk analysis procedures. The fees
received for services provided and for facilities are charged subject to market conditions.

4. Unconsolidated Securitisation programme

In 2013 ING transferred financial assets (mortgage loans) for an amount of approximately EUR 2 billion to a newly established special
purpose entity (SPE). The transaction resulted in full derecognition of the financial assets from ING’s statement of financial position.
The derecognition did not have a significant impact on net result. Following this transfer ING continues to have two types of on-going
involvement in the transferred assets: as counterparty to the SPE of a non-standard interest rate swap and as servicer of the
transferred assets. ING has an option to unwind the transaction by redeeming all notes at their principal outstanding amount, in the
unlikely event of changes in accounting and/or regulatory requirements that significantly impact the transaction. The fair value of the
swap held by ING at 31 December 2017 amounted to EUR –41 million (2016: EUR –5 million); fair value changes on this swap
recognised in the statement of profit or loss in 2017 were EUR –36 million (2016: EUR –6 million). Fee income recognised in the
statement of profit or loss in 2017 amounted to EUR 2 million (2016: EUR 2 million).

ING Group Annual Report 2017

219

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

5. Other structured entities

In the normal course of business, ING Group enters into transactions with structured entities as counterparty. Predominantly in its
structured finance operations, ING can be instrumental in facilitating the creation of these structured entity counterparties. These
entities are generally not included in the consolidated annual accounts of ING Group, as ING facilitates these transactions as
administrative agent by providing structuring, accounting, funding, lending, and operation services.
ING Bank offers various investment fund products to its clients. ING Bank does not invest in these investment funds for its own account
nor acts as the fund manager.

49 Related parties

In the normal course of business, ING Group enters into various transactions with related parties. Parties are considered to be related if
one party has the ability to control or exercise significant influence over the other party in making financial or operating decisions.
Related parties of ING Group include, among others, its subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, key management personnel, and
various defined benefit and contribution plans. For post-employment benefit plans, reference is made to Note 35 ‘Pension and other
postemployment benefits’. Transactions between related parties include rendering or receiving of services, leases, transfers under
finance arrangements and provisions of guarantees or collateral. There are no significant provisions for doubtful debts or individually
significant bad debt expenses recognised on outstanding balances with related parties.

Subsidiaries
Transactions with ING Group’s main subsidiaries
ING Bank N.V.

Assets

2017

2016

21,277

14,903

Liabilities

377

70

Income received

448

414

3

30

Expenses paid

Transactions between ING Groep N.V. and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation. Reference is made to Note 47 ‘Principal
subsidiaries’ for a list of principal subsidiaries and their statutory place of incorporation.
Assets from ING Bank N.V. mainly comprise long-term funding. Liabilities to ING Bank N.V. mainly comprise short-term deposits.

Associates and joint ventures
Transactions with ING Group’s main associates and joint ventures
Associates

Joint ventures

2017

20161

2017

2016

120

27

9

12

Liabilities

86

16

5

59

Off-balance sheet commitments

92

34

1

2

Income received

8

9

Expenses paid

6

1

Assets

1 Includes transactions with NN Group until ING lost significant influence in January 2016.

Assets, liabilities, commitments, and income related to Associates and joint ventures result from transactions which are executed as
part of the normal Banking business.
In January 2016, ING Group sold shares in NN Group and lost significant influence resulting in NN Group no longer being a related party
of ING Group. Prior to this sale, since deconsolidation at the end of May 2015, NN Group was accounted for as an Investment in
associate held for sale and transactions with ING Group were included as Associates in the table above.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

220

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Key management personnel compensation

Transactions with key management personnel (Executive Board, Management Board Banking and Supervisory Board) and postemployment benefit plans are transactions with related parties. These transactions are disclosed in more detail as required by Part 9
Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code in the remuneration report included in the annual report. The relevant sections of the remuneration
report therefore form part of the annual accounts.
In 2017 and 2016, three members of the Executive Board of ING Groep N.V. were also members of the Management Board Banking.
The members of the Management Board Banking are considered to be key management personnel and their compensation is
therefore included in the tables below.
Key management personnel compensation (Executive Board and Management Board Banking)
Executive Management
Board of ING
Board
Groep N.V.1, 2 Banking 1,3,4

2017
in EUR thousands

Total

Fixed Compensation
– Base salary

4,399

3,772

8,171

– Collective fixed allowances5

1,418

1,180

2,598

96

118

214

1,204

–

1,204

– Pension costs
– Severance benefits
Variable compensation
– Upfront cash
– Upfront shares
– Deferred cash
– Deferred shares
– Other
Total compensation
1
2
3
4
5

–

463

463

226

485

711

–

694

694

339

728

1,067

–

–

–

7,682

7,440

15,122

Includes their compensation earned in the capacity as Board members.
In 2017 two members left and two members joined the Executive Board.
Excluding members that are also members of the Executive Board of ING Groep N.V.
In the Management Board Banking, excluding the Executive Board members, one member left and one member joined in 2017.
The collective fixed allowances consist of two savings allowances applicable to employees in the Netherlands; an individual savings allowance of 3.5% and a
collective savings allowance to compensate for loss of pension benefits with respect to salary in excess of EUR 103,317.

Key management personnel compensation (Executive Board and Management Board Banking)
Executive Management
Board of ING
Board
Groep N.V.1
Banking1,2,3

2016
in EUR thousands

Total

Fixed Compensation
– Base salary

4,070

4,111

8,181

– Collective fixed allowances4

1,167

1,167

2,334

78

108

186

–

918

918

– Pension costs
– Severance benefits
Variable compensation
– Upfront cash
– Upfront shares
– Deferred cash
– Deferred shares
– Other
Total compensation
1
2
3
4

–

485

485

300

572

872

–

727

727

449

857

1,306

–

1,184

1,184

6,064

10,129

16,193

Includes their compensation earned in the capacity as Board members.
Excluding members that are also members of the Executive Board of ING Groep N.V.
In 2016, one new member joined and one member retired
The collective fixed allowances consist of two savings allowances applicable to employees in the Netherlands; an individual savings allowance of 3.5% and a
collective savings allowance to compensate for loss of pension benefits with respect to salary in excess of EUR 101,519.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

221

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Key management personnel compensation (Supervisory Board)
in EUR thousands

Total compensation

2017

2016

1,022

1,088

The table above shows the fixed remuneration, expense allowances and attendance fees for the Supervisory Board for 2017 and 2016.
Loans and advances to key management personnel 1
Amount outstanding
31 December

Executive Board members

Repayments

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

2,681

2,849

1.8%

2.6%

–

150

550

532

2.3%

3.8%

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

3,231

3,381

–

150

Management Board Banking
Supervisory Board members
Total

Average interest rate

2017

in EUR thousands

1 Year on year development includes changes due to change in composition of the Board.

Number of ING Groep N.V. shares and stock options to key management personnel
ING Groep N.V. shares

Stock options on
ING Groep N.V. shares

2017

2016

2017

2016

Executive Board members

202,357

261,684

174,318

95,921

Management Board Banking

112,342

120,646

37,415

123,237

Supervisory Board members

172,734

172,734

113,385

226,864

Total number of shares and stock options

487,433

555,064

325,118

446,022

in numbers

Key management personnel compensation is generally included in Staff expenses in the statement of profit or loss, except for key
management personnel employed by entities that are presented as held for sale and discontinued operations in which case their
compensation is included in the Total net result from discontinued operations.
Remuneration of the Executive Board and Management Board Banking is recognised in the statement of profit or loss in Staff expenses
as part of Total expenses. The total remuneration of the Executive Board and Management Board Banking as disclosed in the table
above includes all variable remuneration related to the performance year 2017. Under IFRS, certain components of variable
remuneration are not recognised in the statement of profit or loss directly, but are allocated over the vesting period of the award. The
comparable amount recognised in Staff expenses in 2017 and included in Total expenses in 2017, relating to the fixed expenses of
2017 and the vesting of variable remuneration of earlier performance years, is EUR 15 million.

50 ING’s Restructuring

In the course of the 2008 financial crisis ING accepted State Aid, which required ING to restructure and divest its insurance and
investment management businesses. With the listing of Voya Financial, on the New York Stock Exchange, ING divested its US insurance
and investment management business by March 2015. The sale of the final shares in NN Group, ING’s former European/Japanese
insurance and investment management business, completed the restructuring in 2016.

51 Subsequent events

On 29 January 2018 ING announced it had reached agreement to acquire a 75% stake in Payvision. Payvision is a Netherlands based
payments service provider with a total estimated value of EUR 360 million. The transaction is not expected to have material impact on
ING's CET1 ratio.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

222

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Risk Management

amounts in millions of euros, unless stated otherwise

ING Group Risk Management

As a global financial institution with a strong European base, offering banking services, ING is exposed to a variety of risks. ING
operates through a comprehensive risk management framework and integrates risk management in its daily business activities and
strategic planning. This ensures the identification, measurement and control of risks at all levels of the organisation so that ING
Group’s financial strength is safeguarded. Taking measured risks is the core of ING’s business.
Risk management supports the Executive Board in formulating the risk appetite, strategies, policies, limits and provides a
review, oversight and support function throughout ING on risk-related items. The main financial risks ING is exposed to are credit risk
(including transfer risk), market risk (including interest rate, equity, real estate, credit spread, and foreign exchange risks), funding &
liquidity risk and business risk. Furthermore, ING is also exposed to non-financial risks, e.g. operational and compliance risks. The ING
Group Chief Risk Officer (CRO) is also the CRO of ING Bank. Therefore, he is responsible for the day-to-day Risk Management of the
Group and the Bank. The way ING manages these risks on a day-to-day basis is described in this Risk Management section. The ‘Risk
management’ section in the Integrated Annual Report is an integral part of the audited consolidated annual accounts.
The Risk Management section describes the key risks that arise from ING’s business model. It explains how the risk management
function is embedded within the organisation based on the ‘three lines of defence’. The key risks resulting from the bank’s business
model are managed by dedicated and specific risk management departments that each covers its own area of expertise. The risk
management disclosures provide qualitative and quantitative disclosures about credit, market, liquidity and funding, business and
non-financial risks.
The risk management section is in line with the accounting standards relating to the nature and the extent of the risks as required by
IFRS7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ as adopted by the European Union and covered by an opinion of the External Auditor as part
of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Disclosures in accordance to Part Eight of the CRR and CRD IV, and as required
by the supervisory authority, are published in our ‘Additional Pillar III Report’, which can be found on our corporate website ing.com.

Purpose and business model

The purpose of ING’s risk management function is to support the ambition of ING to be the primary bank for our customers,
empowering the business through an integrated, state of the art, enterprise-wide risk management platform. The following principles
support this purpose:
• The risk management function is embedded in all levels of ING’s organisation and is part of the daily business activities and
strategic planning to have a sustainable competitive advantage;
• Products and portfolios are structured, underwritten, priced, approved and managed properly and compliance with internal and
external rules is monitored;
• Delegated authorities are consistent with the overall bank strategy and risk appetite; and
• Transparent communication to internal and external stakeholders on risk management.

Risk governance

Effective risk management requires a firm-wide risk governance. ING’s risk and control structure is based on the ‘three lines of defence’
governance model, whereby each line has a specific role and defined responsibilities in such a way that the execution of tasks is
separated from the control of the same tasks. At the same time, they have to work closely together to identify, assess and mitigate
risks. This governance framework ensures that risk is managed in line with the risk appetite as approved by the Management Board
Banking (MBB), the EB and the SB, and is cascaded throughout ING. The MBB is composed of the Executive Board of ING Group and the
managers of the business lines.
The head of ING’s line of business and their delegates form the first line of defence and have primary accountability for the
performance, operations, compliance and effective control of risks affecting their respective businesses. They originate loans, deposits
and other products within applicable frameworks and limits, they know our customers well and are well-positioned to act in both the
customers’ and ING’s best interest. The COO is responsible and accountable for proper security and controls on both local and global
applications and IT-platforms servicing the bank.
The second line of defence consists of oversight functions with a major role for the risk management organisation headed by the Chief
Risk Officer (CRO), who has ultimate responsibility. Risk Management at the corporate level is responsible for (i) the development of
overall policies and guidance, (ii) objectively challenge the execution, management and control processes and (iii) coordinate the
reporting of risks and controls by the first line of defence. It also has an escalation/veto power in relation to business activities that are
judged to present unacceptable risks to ING.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

223

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

The internal audit function forms the third line of defence. It provides an on-going independent (i.e. outside of the businesses and the
risk organisation) and objective assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls of the first two lines, including financial and nonfinancial risk management.
The graph below illustrates the different key senior management level committees in place in the risk governance structure.

2-tier board
structure

SB Level

Supervisory Board
Risk Committee

Audit Committee

Executive Board/Management Board Banking

CRO

Finance & Risk Committee
Executive Level

Risk Committees

Internal Audit
GCTP
GCC(TA)
ALCO Bank
Non-Financial Risk Committee

Regional and
BU Level

BU Line Management,
Regional & Local Managers

Local and Regional
Risk Committee

Bank Risk Management Function
Regional and BU Risk Managers

1st line of defence

Board level risk oversight

2nd line of defence

3rd line of defence

ING has a two-tier board structure consisting of a management board (Executive Board (EB) for ING Group and Management Board
Banking (MBB) for ING Bank) and the Supervisory Board (SB); both tiers play an important role in managing and monitoring the risk
management framework.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

224

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

•

•

The SB is responsible for supervising the policy of the EB and the MBB, the general course of affairs of ING Group, ING Bank and its
business (including its financial policies and corporate structure). For risk management purposes the SB is advised by two of its
sub-committees:
• The Audit Committee, which assists the SB in monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of ING Group and ING Bank,
in monitoring the compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, and in monitoring the independence and performance
of ING's internal and external auditors; and
• The Risk Committee, which assists and advises the SB in monitoring the risk profile and approving the risk limits of the
company as well as the structure and operation of the internal risk management and control systems.
The EB is responsible for managing risks associated with all activities of ING Group, whereas the MBB is responsible for managing
risks associated with all activities of ING Bank. The EB and MBB responsibilities include ensuring that internal risk management and
control systems are effective and that ING Group and ING Bank comply with relevant legislation and regulations. On a regular
basis, the EB and MBB report on these issues and discusses the internal risk management and control systems with the SB. On a
quarterly basis, the EB and MBB report on the ING’s risk profile versus its risk appetite to the Risk Committee, explaining changes in
the risk profile.

As a member of the EB and the MBB, the CRO ensures that risk management issues are heard and discussed at the highest level, thus
establishing the appropriate tone at the top. The CRO steers a functional, independent risk organisation both at head-office and
business-unit levels, which supports the commercial departments in their decision-making, but at the same time has sufficient
countervailing power to keep the agreed risk profile within the risk tolerance. Every quarter, the CRO reports to the SB committees on
ING’s risk appetite levels and on ING’s risk profile. In addition, the CRO briefs the SB committees on developments in internal and
external risk related issues and ensures the SB committees understand specific risk concepts.
As part of the integration of risk management into the annual strategic planning process, the MBB annually issues a Planning Letter
which provides the corporate strategic direction and addresses key risk issues. Based on the Planning Letter, the business lines and
business units develop their business plans which align with the bank’s strategic direction. The process includes a qualitative and
quantitative assessment of the risks involved. As part of the process, strategic limits and risk appetite levels are explicitly discussed.
Based on the business plans, the MBB formulates the Strategic Plan which is submitted to the SB for approval.

Executive level

The key risk committees described below act within the overall risk policy and delegated authorities granted by the MBB:
•

•
•
•

Global Credit & Trading Policy Committee (GCTP) discusses and approves policies, methodologies and procedures related to credit,
trading, country and reputation (Environmental and social risk or ESR) risks. The GCTP meets on a monthly basis. In addition, the
Credit & Trading Risk Policy Committee (CTRC) is the highest level body, with the exception of ING Global Credit & Trading Policy
Committee (GCTP) and the Management Board Banking, authorised to discuss and approve policies, methodologies and
procedures related to Credit Risk;
Global Credit Committee – Transaction Approval (GCC(TA)) discusses and approves transactions which entail taking credit risk
(including investment risk), country, legal and ESR risk. The GCC(TA) meets twice a week;
Asset and Liability Committee Bank (ALCO Bank) discusses and approves on a monthly basis the overall risk profile of all ING Bank’s
balance sheet and capital management risks that occur as part of its activities. ALCO Bank defines the policy regarding funding,
liquidity, interest rate mismatch and solvency for ING; and
Non-Financial Risk Committee Bank (NFRC Bank) is accountable for the design and maintenance of the Non-Financial Risk
Management Framework including Operational Risk Management, Compliance and Legal policies, minimum standards, procedures
and guidelines; the NFRC structure; development of tools, methods and key parameters (incl. major changes) for risk identification,
measurement and monitoring/ reporting. The minimum frequency of the NFRC Bank is at least quarterly.

The Finance and Risk Committee (F&RC) is a platform for the CRO and the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), along with their respective
direct reports, to coordinate issues that relate to both the finance and risk domains. On reporting level, F&RC has the responsibility to
coordinate finance and risk decisions that have an impact on internal and/or external reporting. This includes advising on and
reviewing of issues that impact the financial condition of ING.

Regional and business unit level

The CRO is supported by regional and/or business unit CROs focussing on specific risks in the geographical and/or business areas of
their responsibilities. ING’s regional and/or business unit management have primary responsibility for the management of risks (credit,
market, funding and liquidity, operational and compliance risks) that arise in their daily operations. They are accountable for the
implementation and execution of appropriate risk frameworks affecting their businesses to ensure compliance with procedures and
processes at corporate level. The implementation is adapted if necessary to local requirements.
The local (regional and BU) CRO is responsible for the analysis, control and management of risks across the whole value chain (from
front to back office), based on which a robust control structure is maintained.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

225

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Risk management function
Organisational structure

Over the past years, banks have been faced with regulatory and public pressure with regard to their risk management policies,
processes and systems. New requirements and regulations have been introduced and implemented. To be able to effectively address
these internal and external (market and regulatory) developments and challenges, ING started to redesign the set-up of its riskmanagement organisation in 2015. The purpose of this redesign is to better support the Bank’s Think Forward strategy and enhance
the interconnection between the risk oversight responsibilities in the business units on one hand, and the global risk functions on the
other hand.
As announced in 2016, ING is accelerating its Think Forward strategy. Therefore, ING has introduced a number of initiatives to enhance
the customer experience, further grow primary customers and lending, and increase efficiency. For Risk, it has initiated a Target
Operating Model (TOM) programme to enable further convergence of our operations, which resulted in the establishment of a new risk
organisation as of 1 March 2017.
In line with this TOM, the new global Risk function has a two-tier governance structure. This new structure has resulted in a reshuffle of
the tasks carried out by Risk Management, both at Tier 1 and Tier 2 level. Some of the activities have been transferred from the second
to the first Line of Defence (i.e. operational risks) and also some responsibilities have shifted between Tier 1 and Tier 2 (i.e. more
responsibility at Tier 1 for Tier 1 risk issues). The risk officer in Tier 1 focuses more on risk management within the local unit and in Tier
2 the focus is on setting policies and on monitoring the work in Tier 1 (i.e. more responsibility in managing its own risk issues, and
determining and putting in place adequate controls).
Tier 1 level consists of regional and/or business unit CROs. These CROs bear direct responsibility for risk (mitigating) decisions in the
respective area of responsibility, and report directly to ING’s CRO and to the head of their regional area and business unit. This dual
reporting system aims to ensure that the local risk management function is independent from the operating functions and that it is
aligned with the corporate risk policies and goals.
Tier 2 level compromises of corporate risk departments headed by General Managers directly reporting to the CRO. The corporate risk
departments support the CRO to set the risk appetite, develop corporate policies, rules and global procedures, and manage the risk
infrastructure. It is composed of 4 main departments which are Financial Risk, Non-Financial Risk, Model Risk Management and the Risk
COO. The purpose of Financial Risk (FR) is to set the risk strategy across the organisation to control the financial risk and financialrelated regulatory risk, while Non-Financial Risk (NFR) focuses on operational and compliance risks. Model Risk Management is
responsible for policy setting in the domain of model risk, validating regulatory and non-regulatory models. The last department is the
Risk COO which operates as a Shared Service Centre for the global risk community. Furthermore, the General Managers and the CRO
are responsible for the harmonisation and standardisation of risk management practices.
In addition, the CRO has one staff department in place:
• Risk & Capital Integration (R&CI) reports functionally to the CRO and is responsible for overarching risk topics such as risk appetite,
disclosures, recovery and resolution planning and stress testing. Also, R&CI is involved in capital and balance sheet planning, and
managing the ICAAP (Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process). Until end 2017, Risk and Capital Integration had a double
reporting line, functionally to the CRO and hierarchically to the Head of Capital Management. As of 1 January 2018 the double
reporting line has been changed into a single reporting line to the CRO.
The organisation chart below illustrates the reporting lines in 2017 for the risk organisation:

ING Group Annual Report 2017

226

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Chief Risk
Oﬃcer

Risk & Capital
Integration

Financial
Risk

Non-Financial
Risk

Model Risk
Management

Risk
COO
Tier 2
Tier 1

CRO
Wholesale Banking

CRO
Netherlands

CRO
Belgium

CRO Challengers &
Growth Markets

Risk policies, procedures and standards

ING has a framework of risk management policies, procedures and minimum standards in place to create consistency throughout the
organisation, and to define requirements that are binding to all business units. The goal of the governance framework of the local
business units is to align with ING’s framework and to meet local (regulatory) requirements. Senior management is responsible to
ensure policies, procedures and standards are implemented and adhered to. Policies, procedures and standards are regularly reviewed
and updated via the relevant risk committees to reflect changes in markets, products and practices.

Risk model governance and validation

Risk models are built according to internal risk modelling methodology standards and model life cycle, in line with regulatory
requirements. After thorough review and documentation of the model by Model Development (MD) and Model Risk Management
(MRM) departments, specific model risk committees for each risk type approve new models. After approval by the specific risk
committee, and where necessary the regulator, a new risk model is implemented and approved for use. In addition, MRM validates
each model on a regular basis. Validation results and its capital impact are reported on a quarterly basis to senior management, the
risk committee and to the supervisor.
An independent MRM department is one of the cornerstones of ING’s risk model governance. It consists of the process of determining
that a model is appropriate for its intended use. It is an on-going process whereby the reliability of the model is verified at different
stages during its lifecycle: at conception, before approval, periodically after implementation, and when significant changes to the
model are made. The validation process contains a mix of developmental evidence, process verification and outcome analysis.
The MRM department independently reviews the performance of ING's risk models. In addition to (i) evaluating the underlying model
parameters, (ii) ensuring continued applicability of the models for the relevant portfolios, and (iii) discussing the model performance
with front office and risk users of the models, MRM also (iv) tests the observed performance of a model (and its components) with the
predicted level. Where the observed results deviate from the predicted results becomes a candidate for either re-calibration or redevelopment.

Risk culture

The risk management framework based on the three lines of defence governance model is effective when a sound and consistent risk
culture is present throughout the whole organisation. The reputation and integrity of ING’s organisation are considered key
requirements to operate successfully in the financial world. It promotes awareness of collectively shared values, ideas and goals but
also of potential threats and it ensures alignment of individual performance objectives with the short- and long-term strategy. ING
believes that embedding the risk culture and awareness in the organisation leads to effective risk management. ING therefore aims to
make risk responsibilities transparent within the different levels of the organisation and hold every employee accountable for his/her
acts.
Commonly seen as norms and traditions of behaviour of individuals and of groups within an organisation, risk culture determines the
way in which employees identify, understand, discuss, and act on the risks the organisation is confronted with and the risks it takes.
This is a continuous long-term commitment and journey. In this respect, The Orange Code has been set as a declaration of who we
are. It describes what we can expect from each other when we turn up to work each day. It is a set of standards that we collectively
value, strive to live up to, and invite others to measure us by.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

227

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

The Orange Code is the sum of two parts, the ING Values and ING Behaviours, with integrity being an important principle. The ING
Values (being honest, prudent and responsible) are designed to be non-negotiable promises we make to the world, principles we seek
to stick to, no matter what. The ING Behaviours (take it on and make it happen, help others to be successful, and be always a step
ahead) represent our way to differentiate ourselves. The Orange Code is embedded in commitments we make to each other and the
standards by which we will measure each other’s performance.
To support the embedding of risk culture into business practices, ING has initiated different programmes and issued several guidelines.
Risk awareness is to be alert to potential threats that can occur during day-to-day business, which can be specific to the sector, the
region or the clients ING is doing business with. Part of the training curriculum to increase risk awareness is the Promoting Integrity
Programme (PIP), which is a long-term, global, educational and behavioural change programme supported by the EB and MBB for all
ING employees. With the programme, ING aims to gain a sound risk culture and to ensure that every employee in every part of the
organisation understands how his/her actions and behaviour can help earn and retain customer and stakeholder trust. Recently,
additional modules with current topics, were added to the programme, among others on integrity and cybersecurity. To enhance risk
awareness, these topics are discussed between managers and employees through dialogue sessions that managers organise within
their teams to create clear and consistent understanding. The endorsement from the executive level and the emphasis in the
communication strengthen the culture.
In the Netherlands, employees of all financial institutions – and that includes ING – are required to take the Banker’s Oath. This legal
requirement came into force on 1 April 2015 as part of the joint approach from all banks, known as ‘Future-oriented Banking'. With the
introduction of such social regulation, the revision of the Dutch Banking Code and the implementation of a banker's oath (with the
associated rules of conduct and disciplinary law), the banks want to show to society what they stand for and what they can be held
accountable for, both as individual banks and the banking sector as a whole.
Lastly, ING aims to align its remuneration policy with its risk profile and the interests of all stakeholders. For more information on ING’s
compensation and benefits policies and its relation to the risk taken, please refer to the “Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR)
Remuneration disclosure” published on the corporate website ing.com. https://www.ing.com/About-us/Annual-reporting-suite.htm

Risk profile
The chart below provides high level information on the risks arising from ING’s business activities.
ING

Business
lines

Business
activities

Risk
proﬁle

Retail
Benelux

•
•
•
•
•
•

Savings
Residential mortgages
Payment accounts
Investment products
Consumer lending
SME/business lending

Retail Challengers &
Growth Markets

•
•
•
•
•
•

Savings
Residential mortgages
Payment accounts
Investment products
Consumer lending
SME/business lending

•
•
•
•

Wholesale
Banking

Corporate
Line

Industry Lending
General Lending
Transaction Services
Financial markets

• Capital management
• Funding

Credit risk, market risk, funding & liquidity risk, non-ﬁnancial risk (operational and compliance), business risk

ING Group Annual Report 2017

228

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Risk cycle process

ING uses a step-by-step risk management approach to monitor, mitigate and manage its financial and non-financial risks. The
approach consists of a cycle of five recurrent activities: risk identification, risk assessment, risk control, risk monitoring and risk
reporting. In short, this implies: determine what the risks are, assess which of those risks can really do harm, take mitigating measures
to control these risks, monitor the development of the risk and if measures taken are effective and report the findings to management
at all relevant levels to enable them to take action when needed.
The recurrence is twofold. One: identification, assessment and review, and update of mitigating measures are done periodically. Two:
the periodical monitoring exercise may indicate emerging risks, known risks are changing, assessed risk levels are changing, or control
measures are not effective enough. Further analyses of these findings may result in renewed and more frequent risk identification,
and/or assessment, and/or change of mitigating measures.

R i sk
tiﬁcation
n
e
d
i
Risk ent
sm
ses

Ri sk
report
i ng

as

R
ni is k
to
rin
g

m

k
Ris tro
n
co

l

o

Risk identification

Risk identification is a joint effort of the commercial business and the risk management functions. Its goal is to detect potential new
risks and determine changes in known risks. Regular risk identification is essential for both the effectiveness and efficiency of risk
management. Potential risks that are not identified, will not be controlled and monitored and may lead to surprises later. Known risks
may have changed over time and as a consequence the existing mitigating measures and monitoring may be inadequate or obsolete.
Risk identification is performed periodically. In case of material internal or external change, additional ad-hoc risk identification can be
performed.

Risk assessment and control

Each identified risk is assessed to determine the importance, or risk level, of the risk for the ING entity in scope. This enables the entity
to decide which of the identified risks need control measures and how strict or tolerant these measures must be. Known risks are reassessed to either confirm the risk level or detect change.
The importance of a risk is assessed based on the likelihood the risk materialises and the subsequent financial or reputational impact
should the risk occur. Unlikely risks with a potentially high impact need to be controlled. For a risk that is likely to happen regularly, but
is expected to have a modest financial impact, business management may decide to not mitigate and accept the consequences when
it happens.
Risks can be controlled by mitigating measures that either lower the likelihood the risk occurs, or measures that lower the impact
when they occur. The ultimate measure to lower risk is to stop the activity or service that causes the risk (risk avoidance). Risk
controlling/mitigating measures are defined and maintained at both bank wide and local level.

Monitoring and reporting

By monitoring the risk control measures, ING checks if they are executed, complied with, have the expected mitigating effects and
follow the development of the risks and their risk levels. Risk reporting provides senior and local management with information they
need to manage risk.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

229

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Risk Appetite Framework

ING uses an integrated risk management approach for its banking activities. The uses the Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) to set both
boundaries for the Medium Term Plan (MTP) budget process and to monitor and manage the actual risk profile in relation to the risk
appetite.

Process

The RAF is focused on setting the risk appetite at the consolidated level and across the different risk categories, and provides the
principles for cascading this risk appetite down into the organisation. The RAF is approved by the SB on an annual basis, or more
frequently if necessary based on their quarterly review in the EB and the MBB and in the SB. It is therefore essentially a top-down
process, which bases itself on the ambition of the bank in terms of its risk profile and is a function of the capital and liquidity levels and
ambitions, the regulatory environment and the economic context. The process is set up according to the following steps:
Step 1. Identify and assess key risks
Annual approval
by EB/MBB and SB
Step 2. Set Risk Appetite Framework

Step 3. Cascade into statements per risk type and business unit
GCTP, ALCO Bank,
NFRC Bank
and/or local approval
Step 4. Monitor and manage underlying risk limits

Step 1. Identify & assess ING’s key risks

Setting the RAF starts with a multi-dimensional step to identify and assess the risks ING is facing when executing its strategy. This step
includes the following actions that are performed on an annual basis:
• detect unidentified risks that are not yet controlled within ING’s risk management function & assess their potential impact;
• benchmark current risk framework versus regulatory developments;
• re-assess known risks to confirm risk level or detect potential changes; and
• reflect on the current set of Risk Appetite Statements.
This annual risk assessment serves as input when defining the global risk appetite which – in line with its business model and risk
ambition – is currently formulated as follows: ING has the ambition to be and remain a strong bank, resilient to possible adverse
events on a standalone basis and able to address such developments based on its own strengths and resources.
To be able to execute the strategy, ING has formulated the following risk and capital targets:
• have a rating strong enough to support the execution of ING’s Funding & Capital issuance plan;
• be able to restore the capital and liquidity position following a stress situation on its own strength;
• be in a position to meet current and forthcoming regulatory requirements and targets; and
• have a risk profile that compares favourably to its main banking peers.

Step 2. Set Risk Appetite Framework

Based on ING’s risk assessment and risk ambition, specific targets are set for both financial and non-financial risks:

Financial risk

For financial risks, ING expresses its risk appetite as a tolerance allowed to key ratios deviating from their target levels. Therefore, the
high level risk ambition is translated into quantitative targets for solvency risk, funding & liquidity risk and for concentration risk.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

230

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

The solvency risk appetite is closely aligned with capital management activities and policies. ING has determined tolerances for its
risk-weighted solvency position (CET1 ratio), for non-risk-weighted solvency (leverage ratio), for a more economic value based
solvency (economic capital utilisation expressed via the Overall Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (SREP) Capital
Requirement) and for a separate forward-looking risk appetite for earnings variability (earnings at risk). The CET1 ratio and leverage
solvency risk appetite statements as well as profitability statement are not only compared to the actual reported level, but also
include the potential impact of a standardised and pre-determined 1-in-10-year stress event (i.e. at a 90% confidence level with a 1year horizon). Based on this mild stress scenario, the impact on ING’s earnings, revaluation reserve and risk-weighted assets (RWA) is
calculated (these are labelled earnings-at-risk, revaluation reserve-at-risk and RWA-at-risk). In addition, the impact on economic value
is calculated where a more severe stress scenario for the economic capital is adhered to. These stressed figures are used as input for a
two-year simulation which depicts the developments of ING’s solvency level versus its risk appetite.
Funding and liquidity risk management has two dimensions: liquidity risk management focuses on having a sufficient buffer to cope
with the short-term situation, funding risk management ensures long-term compliance with both internal and external targets.
Managing funding and liquidity risk focuses both on ‘business as usual’ (based on the run-off profile to show the stickiness of deposits
combined with the run-off of assets without new production) and on a stressed situation. In the stressed situation, we use for liquidity
risk the time to survive under a specific scenario, while for funding risk we focus on having a stable funding profile.
The concentration risk appetite set at the consolidated level are directly translated into corresponding limits in the underlying risk
appetite statements for profitability risk, credit risk, market risk and funding & liquidity risk. Further details may be found in the
dedicated sections (credit risk, market risk and funding & liquidity risk).
The business risk appetite statement is focusing on earnings stability and diversification, as avoiding to put all eggs in one basket
reduces the risk that volumes and/or margins will suddenly drop due to unexpected changes in the business environment for certain
markets and products. ING has determined for its business risk a geographical segmentation statement through the business mix and
a total income classification statement (based on a minimum of Fee and Commission Income).

Non-financial risk

For non-financial risks, levels are set according to what ING is willing to tolerate in pursuit of the strategic objectives of the bank, to
ensure that the organisation’s actual risk exposure is commensurate with its strategic objectives and that exposure moving beyond
the tolerance risk levels is timely identified and acted upon.
ING measures and monitors its exposure to non-financial risk on an ongoing basis by assessing risks, analysing scenarios and
mitigating actions as a result of audit and risk assessment findings. The aggregation of the assessed risk levels is expressed in an
expected loss figure on non-financial risk, which is compared to the tolerance levels as captured in the NFR Risk Appetite Statements
(RAS) based on a percentage of the MTP-income. Furthermore, reported actual losses per financial reporting year and weighted
overdue percentages for audit & risk assessment findings must be below a certain threshold. The overall non-financial risk levels and
tolerance breaches are periodically reported through the Non-Financial Risk Dashboard (NFRD). The NFRD provides an overview of key
risks within the non-financial risk areas on a quarterly basis. Changes in capital are monitored and reported in the NFRD as well. In case
risk events cause ING to move towards or beyond the tolerance level, management is required to undertake action.
On compliance risk, ING aims to meet its obligations, to adhere to the spirit as well as to the letter of applicable laws and regulation,
ING policies and minimum standards, the values and behaviours as defined in the Orange Code, and to act upon identified compliance
breaches swiftly and diligently.

Step 3. Cascade into statements per risk type and business unit

Risk appetite is translated per risk type, which is further cascaded down into the organisation to the lowest level. Risk appetite
statements are then translated into dedicated underlying risk limits which are used for day-to-day monitoring and management of
ING’s risks.
For financial risks, a sequence of different risk appetite frameworks is implemented to address the most significant risks. This implies
that a whole framework of credit risk limits is in place that monitors the overall quality of ING’s credit portfolio and all underlying
portfolios. In addition, specific concentration risk appetites are defined on product level, geographic level and (single name)
counterparty level which are cascaded down into the organisation. The risk appetite for the trading book activities within Financial
Markets is accompanied by a risk appetite framework for market risks in the banking books. For both types of market risk, limits at ING
level are translated into the organisation. The funding & liquidity risk appetite statements that are defined on ING level are translated
into the organisation, taking the funding & liquidity specific situation of each (solo) unit into account. Risk appetite for non-financial
risk is cascaded to the divisions and business units through a set of quantitative and qualitative statements. The risk appetite at ING
level is applicable to all divisions and business units. The suite of risk appetite statements serves as input for the MTP process as well as
for the establishment of key performance indicators and targets for senior management.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

231

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Step 4. Monitor and manage underlying risk limits

In order to verify that it remains within the risk appetite framework as it is executing its budget, ING reports its risk positions vis-à-vis
its limits on a regular basis towards senior management committees. The Risk and Capital Management Report reflecting the exposure
of ING against the risk appetite targets is submitted quarterly, after discussion by F&RC, to the EB and the MBB and to the (Risk
Committee of the) SB.

Stress testing

Stress testing is an important risk management tool that provides input for strategic decisions and capital planning. The purpose of
stress testing is to assess the impact of plausible but severe stress scenarios on ING’s capital and liquidity position. Stress test provides
insights in the vulnerabilities of certain portfolios, with regards to adverse macroeconomic circumstances, stressed financial markets
and changes in the (geo)political climate.

Types of stress tests

Within ING, different types of stress tests are performed. The most comprehensive type of stress tests are the firm-wide scenario
analyses, which involve setting scenario assumptions for all the relevant macroeconomic and financial market variables in all
countries relevant to ING. These assumptions usually follow a qualitative narrative that provides background to the scenario. In
addition to firm-wide scenario analyses, ING executes scenario analyses for a specific country or portfolio. Furthermore, sensitivity
analyses are performed, which focus on stressing one or more risk drivers; usually without an underlying scenario narrative. The 1-in10-year stress scenario used in the risk appetite framework is an example of a sensitivity analysis. Finally, ING performs reverse stress
tests, which aim to determine scenarios that could lead to a pre-defined severe adverse outcome.

Process

The stress testing process of ING consists of several stages, which are summarised in the diagram below.
Step 1. Risk assessment & scenario selection
STSC & F&RC
discussion and advice
Step 2. Scenario parameter setting

Step 3. Data processing & proposal mitigating actions
EB/MBB
approval
Step 4. Execution of mitigating actions

Step 1. Risk assessment & scenario selection

ING formally determines its main risks on an annual basis through the execution of a so called risk assessment. Senior management,
business representatives and risk specialists are involved in this process which covers risks in the macroeconomic circumstances,
political and regulatory developments as well as portfolio specific risks. Based on the risk assessment, scenarios are selected to be
evaluated in the remainder of the year The results of the risk assessment and scenario selection are discussed and endorsed in the
Stress Testing Steering Committee (STSC). All stakeholders are represented in the STSC, such as representatives of the different
Corporate Risk departments, Capital Management, Finance and the Global Research organisation. The STSC submits the results of the
risk assessment and scenario selection to the F&RC for discussion and advice.

Step 2. Scenario parameter setting

After determination of the high level scenarios, further elaboration of them is necessary. Scope, assumptions and input parameters
such as GDP growth, unemployment rates, interest rates and real estate price changes are defined for the countries involved in the
exercise. The parameters are discussed in the STSC and subsequently in the F&RC.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

232

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Step 3. Data processing & proposal mitigating actions

When the scenario parameters have been finalised, the impact of the scenario on the solvency and liquidity position is determined.
Based on the scenario values for the relevant macro-economic and financial market variables, the impact on amongst others P&L,
revaluation reserves, RWA and liquidity buffers are calculated. These outcomes are subsequently used to calculate the evolution of
relevant solvency and liquidity ratios, such as the common equity Tier-1 (CET1) capital ratio, the leverage ratio and the net liquidity
position.
GDP Growth
Unemployment
Real estate prices
Interest rates
Credit spreads
Equity prices
Savings outﬂow
Professional funding availability
Downgrades
Haircuts
FX Rates
Etc.

Net interest income
Trading income
Commission income
Other income
Credit risk costs
CVA/DVA
Expenses
Revaluation reserves
Liquid asset buﬀer
Inﬂow/outﬂow
Non-ﬁnancial risk costs
LGD, EAD, RWA, EL
INCAP, Economic Capital
Cash & Collateral
Funding mix diversiﬁcation
Intra-group Funding
LT/ST funding diversiﬁcation
Incremental Risk Charge
Etc.

Common Equity Tier 1 ratio
Leverage ratio
LCR liquidity buﬀer
Capital utilisation
Net Liquidity Position
Net Stable Funding Ratio
Single Name Concentration event
Country Concentration event
Sector Concentration event
Event Risk
Etc.

As for the previous steps, the calculated impacts of the scenario are first discussed and endorsed in the STSC followed by the BF&RC.
Depending on the outcomes of the stress test and the likelihood of the scenario, mitigating actions may be proposed. Approval of
these mitigating actions takes place in the EB and the MBB.

Step 4. Execution of mitigating actions

After the EB and MBB has approved the mitigating actions, they need to be executed. Mitigating actions may include, but are not
limited to, sales or transfers of assets, reductions of risk limits, intensification of our contacts with regulators or other authorities.

Methodology

For the calculation of the impact of the scenarios detailed and comprehensive models are used. In these models, statistical analysis is
combined with expert opinion to make sure that the results adequately reflect the scenario assumptions. The methodologies are
granular and portfolio-specific and use different macro-economic and market variables as input variables. The stress testing models
are subject to a thorough review by the Model Validation department.

Economic and Regulatory Capital

Economic Capital (EC) and Regulatory Capital (RC) are the main sources of capital allocation within ING. Both of these capital metrics
are used to determine the amount of capital that a transaction or business unit requires to support the economic and regulatorybased risks it faces. The concept of EC differs from RC in the sense that RC is the mandatory amount of capital that is defined under
Pillar I while EC is the best estimate of Pillar II capital that ING uses internally to manage its own risk. EC is a non-accounting measure
that is inherently subject to dynamic changes and updated as a result of ING’s portfolio mix and general market developments. ING
continuously recalibrates the underlying assumptions behind its economic capital model which may have an impact on the values of
EC going forward.
EC is defined as the amount of capital that a transaction or business unit requires in order to support the economic risks it takes. EC is
focusing on the bank activities within ING Bank consolidated and therefore only available per that scope. In general, EC is measured as
the unexpected loss above the expected loss at a given confidence level. This economic capital definition is in line with the net market
value (or surplus) definition. The EC calculation is used as part of the CRR/CRD IV Pillar II Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process
(ICAAP) and the Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (SREP) that is performed regularly by the supervisor.
The following fundamental principles and definitions have been established for the model:
• ING Bank uses a one-sided confidence level of 99.95% and a one-year time horizon to calculate EC;
• It is assumed that all currently known measurable sources of risk are included;
• The best estimate risk assumptions are as objective as possible and based on thorough statistical analysis.;

ING Group Annual Report 2017

233

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

•
•
•

The EC calculations reflect known embedded options and the influence of customer behaviour in banking products;
The EC calculations are on a before tax basis and do not consider the effect of regulatory requirements on capital levels; and
The framework does not include any franchise value of the business, discretionary management intervention or future business
volumes and margins.

Regulatory environment

After the turmoil in the financial markets and the subsequent need for governments to provide aid to financial institutions, financial
institutions have been under more scrutiny from the public, supervisors and regulators. This has resulted in more stringent regulations
intended to avoid future crises in the financial system and taxpayers’ aid in the future.

Basel III revisions, CRR/CRD IV and upcoming regulations

On 23 November 2016, the European Commission published legislative proposals to amend and supplement certain provisions of the
Capital Requirements Directive (CRD), the Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR), the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD)
and the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation (the SRM Regulation). The proposals are wide-ranging and may have significant
effects on ING, including with regard to the total loss absorbing capacity (TLAC) or the minimum requirement own funds and eligible
liabilities (MREL) it must maintain. On 25 October 2017, it was announced that the European Parliament, the Council and the
Commission agreed on elements of the review of the BRRD, CRR and CRD proposed in November 2016. The first consolidated CRR text
with the amendments to the initial Commission's Proposal has been shared with the delegations. This shows that the Council
discussions are progressing quickly reaching agreement on most of the topics.
In December 2017, the Basel III revisions were formally announced by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS). These new
prudential rules for banks consist of a revision to the standardised approach to credit risk, the introduction of a capital floor based on
standardised approaches, the use of internal models, limitation of options for modelling operating risks, and new rules for the
establishment of risk-weighted items and unused credit lines at the banks. ING believes it is good that there is now more clarity. With a
long implementation phase and the transposition into EU regulation still pending, some question marks remain on how this will shape
up. We will meet the final requirements and as before we will continue executing our strategy for our clients and delivering growth at
good returns.

Principles for Effective Risk Data Aggregation and Risk Reporting

In January 2013, the BCBS published Principles for Effective Risk Data Aggregation and Risk Reporting (also known as BCBS239).
BCBS239 consists of fourteen principles to strengthen a bank’s risk data aggregation and risk reporting practices. Collectively
implementing these principles will enhance risk management and decision-making processes at banks. Banks indicated as G-SIBs,
including ING, were required to implement the principles by 2016.
The implementation by our dedicated teams has covered all key BCBS239 principles, resulting in improvements across the data
management and reporting chain. By incorporating the BCBS239 principles in ING’s internal control Framework, the principles have
become a key driver of ING’s data aggregation and risk reporting practices. Also in today’s continuously changing environment, ING
will ensure that key risk data aggregation and reporting practices remain aligned with the BCBS239 principles.

Targeted Review of Internal Models

In order to make capital levels more comparable and to reduce variability in banks’ internal models, the European Central Bank (ECB)
introduced the Targeted Review of Internal Models (TRIM) in June 2017 to assess reliability and comparability between banks’ models.
The TRIM aims to create a level playing field by harmonising the regulatory guidance around internal models, and the ultimate goal is
to restore trust in the use of internal models by European banks. The operating consequences of the TRIM exercise have been
significant. The TRIM is expected to finalise in 2019, and could impact ING through more stringent regulation on internal models.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

234

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Top and emerging risks

The risks listed below are defined as material existing and emerging risks that may have a potentially significant impact on our
financial position or our business model. They may have a material impact on the reputation of the company, introduce volatility in
future results of operations or impact ING’s medium and long-term strategy including the ability to pay dividends, maintain
appropriate levels of capital or meet capital and leverage ratio targets. An emerging risk is defined as a risk that has the potential to
have a significant negative effect on our performance, but currently difficult to quantify the impact on the organisation than for other
risk factors that are not identified as emerging risks.
The topics have emerged either as part of the annual Risk Assessment that is performed as part of the Stress Testing Framework or
from the Risk Appetite Framework. The sequence in which the risks are presented below is not indicative of their likelihood of
occurrence or the potential magnitude of their financial consequences.
During 2017, several changes were made to our top and emerging risks. The top risks in 2017 are still related to the Brexit decision,
cybercrime and persistent low interest rates. Also, ‘Climate change risk’ remains an emerging risk, reflecting the impact a deterioration
of the climate may have for the financial position and/or reputation of ING.

Macroeconomic developments

The economic environment further improved in 2017 marked by strong growth in the United States and a robust recovery in the
eurozone. However, the outcome of Brexit, persistent low interest rates and geopolitical risks are sources of uncertainty.
The sustained low interest rate environment in Europe, where central banks held their rates at very low and even negative levels in
some countries, negatively impacted short-term as well as long-term market rates. The typical interest rate position at ING is that the
duration of the assets is slightly higher than the duration of the liabilities. Given this mismatch, decreasing interest rates are under
normal circumstances favourable for the interest income of ING: liabilities reprice more quickly than assets, and therefore the average
interest rates paid on liabilities should adapt more quickly to lower market interest rates.
However, given the current unusual situation with persistent low interest rates, ING intensified the management of its interest-rate risk
exposure and successfully increased the Net Interest Margin (NIM) on its lending and customer deposits in 2017. On mortgages, the
prepayment incentive for clients is at a relatively high level because of the difference between the rates of the existing mortgage
portfolio and the prevailing low market rates. On savings, NII and NIM remained stable, while room for further reduction of client rates
on savings deposits is almost absent.
Last year’s decision of the United Kingdom to leave the European Union (‘Brexit’) remains a major political and economic event that
continues to effect sentiment. Economic growth in the UK has slowed against a background of continued uncertainty about the future
relationship with the European Union, and increased volatility is present due to the uncertainty of a soft or hard Brexit outcome.
Although ING has activities in the UK through the Wholesale Banking (WB) business line, no material asset quality deterioration
following the Brexit decision has taken place.
Another element which can affect the real economy and gives rise to geopolitical risk is the instability in international relationships. In
this perspective, ING continued to carefully monitor international developments. In addition, rising populism due to increasing social
inequality, polarisation and unemployment is seen as a material geopolitical risk. As a consequence of the rising populism in the
eurozone, a euro breakup is considered as a potential adverse event.

Cybercrime

Cybercrime remains a continuous threat to companies in general and to financial institutions specifically. Both the frequency and the
intensity of attacks increase on a global scale. Threats from Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS), targeted attacks (also called
Advanced Persistent Threats) and Ransomware have intensified worldwide. ING builds on its cybercrime resilience through its
dedicated Cyber Crime Expertise and Response Team, further enhancing the control environment to protect, detect and respond to ebanking fraud, DDoS and targeted attacks. Additional controls continue to be embedded in the organisation as part of the overall
internal control framework and are continuously re-assessed against existing and new threats.
ING also works on strengthening its global cybercrime resilience including strong collaboration against cybercrime with the financial
industry, law enforcement authorities, government (e.g. National Cyber Security Center) and Internet Service Providers (ISPs).

Climate change risk

The climate is changing and this is an unparalleled challenge to our world. The causes and the solutions to these challenges are
complex, but we realise that it is attributed directly or indirectly to human activity that alters the composition of the global
atmosphere, in addition to natural climate variability. As a financial institution, we too have a responsibility and it may ultimately
affect our results if our customers are affected.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

235

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

In general, ING has an impact on the environment and society directly through the consumption of natural resources and its
relationship with stakeholders, and indirectly through our financing. Therefore, climate change as a risk continues to intensify, looking
at the public, regulatory and political concerns around its integration into the financial sector’s operations and strategy.
We can play a role in trying to find solutions. We have been climate neutral since 2007, adapting the organisation to the new world
and taking effective measures to mitigate our impacts. We are aware that our greatest impact however, is through our financing
portfolio. In addition to investing billions of euros in wind farms, solar energy and geothermal power production to support the energy
transition, ING will not only stop providing lending services to new coal-fired power plants or coal mines but will also accelerate the
reduction of financing to thermal-coal power generation to close to zero by 2025.

Credit risk
Introduction

Credit risk is the risk of loss from the default and/or credit rating deterioration of clients. Credit risks arise in ING's lending, financial
markets and investment activities. The credit risk section provides information on how ING measures, monitors and manages credit
risk and gives an insight into the portfolio from a credit risk perspective.

Governance

Credit risk is a Tier 1 risk function within ING and is part of the second line of defence. It is managed within the CRO organisation by
regional and/or business unit CROs focussing on specific risks in the geographical and/or business areas of their responsibilities. These
are the CRO Wholesale Banking (WB), CRO Challengers & Growth Markets (C&G), CRO Netherlands and CRO Belgium. The Financial Risk
department is a Tier 2 function, which ensures oversight at a consolidated level and is responsible for risk appetite setting, risk
frameworks, model development and policies.
ING’s credit risk strategy is to maintain an internationally diversified loan and bond portfolio, avoiding large risk concentrations. The
emphasis is on managing business developments within the business lines by means of a top-down risk appetite framework, which
sets concentration limits for countries, individual clients, sectors, products, secondary risk (collateral/guarantees) and investment
activities. The aim is to support relationship-banking activities, while maintaining internal risk/reward guidelines and controls.
Credit analysis at portfolio level is monitored using metrics such as economic capital, regulatory capital, exposure at default (EAD),
probability of default (PD) and loss given default (LGD). To ensure efficient use of ING’s capital, the risk appetite is monitored and
managed at portfolio level. Credit analysis at transactional level focuses on the risk amount, tenor, structure of the facility and profile
of the borrower. ING’s credit risk managers make use of publicly available information, information provided by the client, peer group
comparisons, industry comparisons and quantitative techniques.
Within ING, the ultimate approval authority for credit proposals resides with the MBB. The MBB has delegated authorities based on
amounts, tenors and risk ratings to lower levels in the organisation. Transactions are approved via a dual signatory approval system
that requires an individual sign-off from both front office and credit risk management. For larger and higher risk credits a committee
structure exists whereby the credit risk chair takes the final decision with advice from the respective committee members, thereby
ensuring accountability. Retail business units have delegated authority to decide within policies and mandates approved by credit risk.
Any decisions outside those policies or above the delegated mandate require a specific credit risk approval.
The credit risk function encompasses the following activities:
• Measuring, monitoring and managing credit risks in the bank’s portfolio;
• Challenging and approving new and modified transactions and borrower reviews;
• Managing the levels of provisioning and risk costs, and advising on impairments; and
• Providing consistent credit risk policies, systems and tools to manage the credit lifecycle of all activities.
The following committees are in place to review and approve transactions and policies from a credit risk point of view:
• The GCTP which is authorised to approve policies, methodologies and procedures related to credit, trading, country and reputation
risks on a high level for ING.
• The GCC(TA) is mandated to approve transactions with credit risks.
• The CTRC is authorised to approve policies, models, methodologies and procedures related to credit & trading risk on more detailed
and operational level (with the exception of issues which are mandated to GCTP).
• The Model Development Committee (MDC) serves as a technical advisor to CTRC and is a planning body for future model
development. The committee has a delegated mandate to approve credit risk models which cover smaller portfolios.
• A steering committee has been established to align overall model strategy, model risk appetite, supporting model frameworks,
policies and methodologies.
• The ING Provisioning Committee (IPC) is the approval authority for loan loss provisions (LLP) for all entities.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

236

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Credit risk categories

Credit risk uses the following risk categories to differentiate between the different types of credit risk:
• Lending risk: arises when ING grants a loan to a client, or issues guarantees on behalf of a client. This includes term loans,
mortgages, revolving credits, overdrafts, guarantees, letters of credit, etc. The risk is measured as the accounting value of the
financial obligation that the client has to repay to ING, excluding any accrued and unpaid interest, discount/premium
amortisations or impairments.
• Investment risk: is the credit default and risk rating migration risk that is associated with ING’s investments in bonds, commercial
paper, equities, securitisations, and other similar publicly traded securities. This can be viewed as the worst-case loss that ING may
incur as a result of holding a position in underlying securities whose Issuer's credit quality deteriorates or defaults. All investments
in the banking book are classified in the investment risk category. The primary purpose of ING’s investments in the banking books
is for liquidity management.
• Money market (MM) risk: arises when ING places short-term deposits with a counterparty in order to manage excess liquidity. As
such, money market deposits tend to be short-term in nature. In the event of a counterparty default, ING may lose the deposit
placed. Money market risk is measured as the accounting value of the deposit, excluding any accrued and unpaid interest or the
effect of any impairment.
• Pre-settlement (PS) risk: arises when a client defaults on a transaction before settlement and ING has to replace the contract by a
trade with another counterparty at the then prevailing (possibly unfavourable) market price. This credit risk category is associated
with derivatives transactions (exchange traded derivatives, OTC derivatives and securities financing transactions.
• Settlement risk: is the risk that arises when there is an exchange of value (funds or instruments) for the same value date or
different value dates and receipt is not verified or expected until after ING has given irrevocable instructions to pay or has paid or
delivered its side of the trade. The risk is that ING delivers but does not receive delivery from its counterparty. ING manages
settlement risk in the same way as other risks including a risk limit structure per borrower. Due to the short term nature (1 day),
ING does not hold provisions or capital for specific settlement risk. Although a relatively low risk, ING increasingly uses DVP
(Delivery versus Payment) and safe settlement payment techniques to reduce settlement risk.
For the reconciliation between credit risk outstanding categories and financial assets we refer to table below:
Reconciliation between credit risk categories and financial assets
Credit risk categories

Mainly relates to:

Notes in the Annual Accounts

Lending risk

-Loans and advances to customers
-Loans and advances to banks
-Cash and balances with central banks
-Off-balance sheet items e.g. obligations under financial
guarantees and letters of credit and undrawn credit facilities

Note 2 Cash and balances with central banks
Note 3 Loans and advances to banks
Note 6 Loans and advances to customers
Note 44 Contingent liabilities and commitments

Investment risk

-Investments (available-for-sale and held-to-maturity)
-Loans and advances to customers

Note 5 Investments
Note 6 Loans and advances to customers

Money market (MM) risk

-Cash and balances with central banks
-Loans and advances to banks
-Loans and advances to customers

Note 2 Cash and balances with central banks
Note 3 Loans and advances to banks
Note 6 Loans and advances to customers

Pre-settlement (PS) risk

-Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (trading assets
and non-trading derivatives)
-Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (trading
assets and non-trading derivatives)
-Securities financing

Note 4 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Note 13 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or
loss

Settlement risk

-Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (trading assets
and non-trading derivatives)
-Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (trading
assets and non-trading derivatives)
-Investments (available-for-sale and held-to-maturity)
-Amounts to be settled

Note 4 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Note 5 Investments
Note 10 Other assets
Note 13 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or
loss
Note 15 Other liabilities

Credit Risk Appetite and Concentration Risk Framework

The credit risk appetite and concentration risk framework enables ING to prevent undesired high levels of credit risk and credit
concentrations within various levels of the ING portfolio. It is derived from the following two concepts:
• Boundaries: a cap on the maximum event loss based on consolidated pre-tax result on each of the metrics of its risk appetite
framework as well as its concentration risk framework (effectively Country Risk, Single Name, and Industry Sector).
• Instruments: supporting metrics, specifically for the concentration risk framework, which sets hard limits based on internal
economic capital.
Credit risk appetite and concentration risk boundaries and instruments are set and reviewed on an annual basis and require approval
from the Risk Committee of the SB.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

237

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Credit risk appetite and concentration framework
Credit risk appetite statements
Country risk concentration
Measured through various metrics:
Expected loss
CRWA
CRWAaR
INCAP
EAD
LGD amount
Secondary risk outstandings
NPL%

Single name and sector concentration
Product and secondary risk concentration

Following organisational structure:
Country
Business line
Business unit/portfolio

Scenarios and stress tests
Product approvals
Risk programs
Reference benchmarks
Credit approval process

Credit risk appetite statements

Credit risk appetite is the maximum level of credit risk ING is willing to accept for growth and value creation. This credit risk appetite is
linked to the overall bank-wide risk appetite framework. The credit risk appetite is expressed in quantitative and qualitative measures.
Having a credit risk appetite achieves:
• Clarity about the credit risks that ING is prepared to assume, target setting and prudent risk management;
• Consistent communication to different stakeholders;
• Guidelines how to align reporting and monitoring tools with the organisational structure and strategy; and
• Alignment of business strategies and key performance indicators of business units with ING’s credit risk appetite by means of the
MTP.
Credit risk appetite is present across different levels within ING, at portfolio level as well as transaction level. The various credit risk
appetite components at portfolio and transaction level together result in the credit risk appetite framework.
Credit risk appetite statements are defined top-down across the credit risk categories (lending, investment, money market and presettlement), and connected to ING high-level risk appetite across all risk types (solvency, credit, liquidity and funding, market, and
non-financial risk). They consist of a set of high-level credit risk metrics: expected loss, economic capital, risk-weighted assets (RWA)
and exposure at default. For each credit risk metric a boundary is set that is cascaded down and monitored on a monthly basis. The
adherence to the boundaries and the pro-active approach to manage the portfolio within the risk appetite boundaries are part of the
key performance indicators of the business line managers.

Country risk concentration

Country risk is the risk that arises due to events in a specific country (or group of countries). In order to manage the maximum country
event loss ING is willing to accept, boundaries are approved by the SB that ensure ING’s consolidated 3-year average result before tax
can absorb an estimated country event loss due to a country risk occurrence. The estimated level is correlated to the risk rating
assigned to a given country.
Country risk is the risk of loss for ING associated with lending, pre-settlement, money market and investment transactions as a result
of country risk events. A country risk event can be described as economic, financial and political shocks and transfer or exchange
restrictions, affecting all counterparties in a specific country. The occurrence of a country risk event may cause all clients in a country
to be unable to ensure timely payments, despite their willingness to meet their contractual debt obligations. As such, country risk is an
additional factor to be taken into account in the credit approval process of individual customers, as the country risk event probability
may impact the default probability of individual counterparties.
Complementary to the country boundaries, country instruments are defined to support the setting of an actual hard limit on a given
country. The country instrument takes into account ING’s ability to actively reduce exposure without triggering either market
distortion or tying up too much of its capital in a country. Country instruments are quantified by the maximum internal economic
capital (INCAP) tolerance level in terms of consolidated BIS capital or the individual country’s outstanding domestic credit or gross
domestic product.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

238

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

By means of the instruments, actual country limits are set (each of which should not exceed the country’s boundary), reviewed
monthly and updated when needed. In case of countries with elevated levels of geo-political or severe economic cycle risk the
monitoring is performed on a more frequent basis with strict pipeline and exposure management to protect ING from adverse impacts.

Single name and industry sector concentration

Using the very same concepts of boundaries and instruments mentioned earlier, ING has additionally established a concentration risk
framework in order to identify, measure and monitor:
• Single name concentration: losses due to the unexpected default of a single counterparty. These single name concentrations are
capped both at individual single name level and aggregated top 5 single name level. The LGD of a single name concentration is
measured against a maximum LGD amount. Large Exposures monitoring and reporting is one of the components of the single
name framework.
• Industry sector concentration (systemic risk): substantial increase of the ING risk profile due to the joint deterioration of a group of
correlated counterparties, sensitive to the same external (macro-economic) factor(s) related to the industry sector it is part of.

Product and secondary Risk Concentration

ING has additionally established a concentration framework to identify, measure and monitor:
• Product concentration: concentrations arising from exposure to same activities or commodities. These concentrations are capped
through actual limits and monitored at retail and wholesale portfolio levels per geographical region.
• Secondary risk: risks arising from secondary exposures that ING has with insurance and re-insurance companies from which the
Bank purchases insurance to protect itself against non-payment under primary exposures.

Scenarios and stress tests

Stress testing evaluates ING’s financial stability under severe but plausible stress scenarios and supports in decision-making that
assures ING remains a financially going concern even after a severe event occurs. In addition to the bank-wide stress test framework
as described in the Risk Management section, ING performs stress tests on a monthly basis in order to continually assess the portfolio
risks and concentrations. These stress tests are consistent with the stress scenario as established in the group wide credit risk appetite
framework. The stress tests are reviewed in the Risk & Capital Integration team and potential management actions are proposed, if
necessary.
ING performs periodical stress tests based on a standardised and pre-determined 1-in-10 year-stress event (i.e. at 90% confidence
level and 1 year horizon) which is similar to the one applied in the solvency risk appetite. Based on this confidence level, a through the
cycle rating migration for the entire portfolio is simulated. For this simulated portfolio, provisions, RWA and Economic Capital are
recalculated to assess what the combined impact of such a year would be. The additional credit RWA (CRWA) that ING should allocate
in such an event is named CRWA-at-Risk. Additionally, ING calculates an Earnings-at-Risk which influences overall CET1 ratio.
Next to the periodical pre-determined stress test related to CRWA-at-Risk, ad-hoc stress tests based on severe but plausible scenarios
are performed. These stress tests can be for internal purposes or at the request of the regulators and are input for future Credit Risk
Appetite setting. Stress testing is used as an additional safety net. In addition to the Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 capital calculations, based on
the results of various stress tests, ING ensures that adequate levels of capital (and liquidity) are available to sustain such severe but
plausible scenarios.

Product approvals

Across ING a product approval and review process ensures effective management of risks associated with the introduction of new or
modified products. It safeguards that sound due diligence is performed by relevant stakeholders to ensure that relevant risks (credit,
operational, compliance, etc.) are adequately mitigated in the Product Approval and Review Process (PARP).

Risk programs

Within ING, risk programs are detailed analyses of defined products and/or industries. They identify the major risk drivers and risk
mitigants, the internal business mandate, and propose the minimum risk (including business) parameters – and potentially the
maximum product and/or portfolio limit - to undertake that business. A risk program is always prepared by the front office responsible
for the internal business mandate and requires an approval from an approval authority. Risk programs may carry various names
and/or may have geographical and/or business limitations (e.g. local vs global).

Reference benchmarks

A reference benchmark is the maximum appetite of credit risk per legal one obligor group. It is expressed as a (benchmark) exposure
at the concentration risk level, which corresponds to (maximum) internal capital consumption for credit risk. It is used as a reference
amount in the credit approval process and can be waived on the basis of proper credit risk arguments.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

239

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Credit approval process

The credit approval process ensures that individual transactions are assessed on a name-by-name basis. For each type of client there
is a dedicated process with credit risk managers specialised along the business lines of ING. The credit approval process is supported by
a risk rating system and exposure monitoring system. Ratings are used to indicate a client’s creditworthiness which translates into a
probability of default. This is used as input to determine the maximum risk appetite that ING has for a given type of client (reference
benchmark). The determination of the delegated authority (the amount that can be approved at various levels of the organisation) is a
function of the risk rating of the client and ING’s credit risk exposure on the client.
Given the nature of the retail business, roles and responsibilities of the local credit risk policy are delegated to local retail credit risk
management. However, the CRO C&G risk is informed of all local retail risk policies so as to monitor that local policies do not conflict
with any global Financial Risk policies. This framework serves to ensure more global alignment while preserving existing empowerment
of local units. As such, approval authorities differ depending on the materiality of the deviation between local policy and global policy.

Environmental and Social Risk Framework

ING makes a positive contribution to global economic growth and more sustainable development by promoting responsible lending
and investment practices. The ESR policy framework incorporates assessment tools that are used in ING’s mainstream processes and
systems. It is therefore fully integrated into regular client and transaction reviews.
The ESR policy framework is reviewed every three years on the basis of significant changes identified in the sectors that are more
vulnerable to environmental and social risks and impacts. In addition, environmental and social risks for all lending transactions are
reviewed during the periodic credit reviews. ESR transactions where funds will be used for asset based finance may require enhanced
ESR due diligence e.g. application of the Equator Principles. Such enhanced ESR evaluation is also required for any high-risk
transaction, such as those that impact indigenous people etc.
The snapshot of ING’s ESR Framework is as follows:

Client assessment
• Follows mainstream
Know Your Client process
• For all corporate clients on parent level

Transaction assessment
Ongoing ESR
assessments
process

• Follows mainstream credit approval process
• For all corporate transactions on legal entity level

• Checks on country, policy standards,
reporting, track records stakeholder
engagement

• Checks on country, impacts on indigenous
peoples, alleged labour and human rights
violotions, sensitive activities, media/NGO
coverage

• Includes checks on ESR Restricted List

• Includes checks on ESR restrictions

• Aligned with Customer Domain Units
globally

• Aligned with Risk Managers globally

Generic use of funds

Speciﬁc use of funds
Further due diligence, e.g.
• Application of Equator
Principles
• Application of speciﬁc IFC
Performance Standards
or EHS Guidelines

The ESR policy framework is fully embedded in ING’s mainstream approval processes and requires involvement of the following areas
globally:
Client Assessment:
• Customer Domain Units (CDU): verify compliance with the applicable ESR policy. CDUs are responsible to assure that information in
the Client ESR Assessment has been duly completed.
Transaction Assessment:

ING Group Annual Report 2017

240

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

•
•
•

Front Office: departments that originate transactions and have direct contact with the client or project sponsors;
Risk Management: departments that provide control over front office activities and generally sign off on the environmental and
social impacts for ’low risk’ or ‘medium risk’ transactions; and
ESR department within risk management fully dedicated to assessing environmental and social impacts associated with ’high-risk’
transactions. Negative advice from the ESR department can only be waived by ING’s highest credit committee or the MBB. In
practice such waivers are very exceptional.

ESR Policy Development and Governance:
• MBB / GCTP: Ultimate approval authority for approving new and updated ESR policies.
As the risk assessment processes are decentralized each front-office team must be highly familiar with ING’s environmental and social
framework. Hence, ING makes significant investment in internal training programs to help CDUs, front office and risk management
staff in assessing the environmental and social risks. In 2017 alone, 285 colleagues have been specifically trained on the ESR policy
framework worldwide.

Credit risk capital and measurement
Credit risk capital

Regulatory capital is the minimum amount of capital (based on 99.90% confidence level) that ING must hold from a regulatory
perspective as a cushion to be able to survive large unexpected losses.

RWA comparison

Comparison of RWA and risk weights across institutions is inherently challenging. Differences in RWA among banks have been
classified by the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) in 3 categories:
1. Risk based drivers that stem from the differences in underlying risk at the exposure/portfolio level and in business models/
strategies including asset class mix;
2. Practice-based drivers including approaches to risk management and risk measurement; and
3. Regulatory environment such as supervisory practices, implementing laws and regulations including national discretion and
accounting standards.

Risk based drivers

ING’s portfolio is dominated by secured lending especially in the areas of residential mortgages, leasing and commercial real estate.
Secured lending tends to have a much lower LGD, given the collateral involved, which is a key driver of RWA calculations. Therefore the
regulatory formula for residential mortgages tends to result in lower RWA, all other factors being equal.

Practice based drivers

ING has a conservative approach to non-performing exposures. Non-performing exposures are recognized early based on unlikely to
pay triggers. For non-retail, ING typically classifies default based on a borrower rating and not a facility rating which means that a
customer will only have one PD (probability of default) regardless of the type(s) of transactions done with ING. As a consequence, if
one facility is in default, usually all facilities of the client are in default. Non-performing clients which were granted forbearance
measures have an additional probation period of 1 year starting from the last moment they are classified as forborne, before
returning to performing status.

Regulatory environment

ING’s primary supervising entity is the ECB, which is supported by many host supervisors. The ECB supervises adherence to regulatory
rules: the regulatory framework defined in CRR/CRD, European Bank Authority (EBA) standards and ECB guidance. The ECB requires all
‘significant changes’ in internal models (PD, LGD and EAD) and policies to be reviewed and approved by the ECB, prior to
implementation. Lower level model changes are either pre-notified or post-notified to the ECB.
Comparing capital levels across banks is a challenging exercise because of different risk profiles, differences in risk based drivers,
practice based drivers and the regulatory environment (e.g. advanced internal rating based approach or the standardised approach).
These factors have a substantial impact on the regulatory capital/RWA of a financial institution. ING continues to work with industry
groups and strives to adhere to the latest BIS and EBA recommendations to improve the transparent reporting of the bank’s capital
calculations.
Economic capital
Economic capital reflects ING’s own view on credit risk, which allows it to be used in decision-making processes (sub) portfolio level.
Credit risk and transfer risk capital are calculated for all portfolios which contain credit or transfer risk, including investment portfolios.
Economic capital is the minimum amount of capital required to cover unexpected losses within a 99.95% confidence level and a 12
months’ time horizon. It is used throughout ING in the decision-making process (mainly wholesale banking), in risk adjusted
counterparty and portfolio profitability measurement tools (wholesale and retail banking), in investment and divestment decisions, in
the country risk framework and in concentration risk management, including risk appetite statements (RAS).

ING Group Annual Report 2017

241

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Economic capital is calculated using the economic values of rating models (PD, EAD and LGD), in line with regulatory requirements.
An important characteristic of our IT systems and framework is that models are built for several purposes, including economic capital,
regulatory capital and loan loss provision. These credit risk models are used throughout the organisation which is compliant with the
Basel Use Test requirement and ensures active feedback on the risk parameters by business units.

Credit risk measurement

There are two ways to measure credit risk within ING’s portfolio, depending on whether the exposure is booked under an ING office
which is permitted by the ECB to use the advanced internal rating based (AIRB) approach, or if it falls under the standardised approach
(SA).

Standardised approach

The standardised approach applies a fixed risk weight to each asset as dictated by the CRR, and is based on the exposure class to
which the exposure is assigned. As such, the Standardised Approach is the least sophisticated of the regulatory capital methodologies
and is not as sensitive as the risk-based approach. Where external rating agency ratings are available, they may be used as a
substitute to using the fixed risk weightings assigned by the Financial Supervisory Authorities. Because the underlying obligors are
relatively small for exposures treated under SA, the underlying obligors tend not to have external ratings.

Advanced internal rating based approach

There are five main elements that drive the determination of risk-weighted assets under the AIRB approach.
•

Probability of Default (PD): The first is the counterparty’s probability of default, which measures a counterparty’s creditworthiness
in terms of likelihood to go into default. It attempts to measure the senior, unsecured standalone creditworthiness of an
organisation without consideration of structural elements of the underlying transactions, such as collateral, pricing, or maturity.
Each borrower has a rating which translates into a specific PD.

•

Exposure at Default (EAD): The second element is the counterparty’s exposure at default. EAD models are intended to estimate
the outstanding amount or obligation at the moment of default in the future. Since the fact that a client will go into default is not
known, and the level of outstanding that may occur on that date is also not known, ING uses a combination of statistical and
hybrid models to estimate the EAD. With the exception of guarantees and letters of credit, the EAD is always equal to or higher
than the associated credit risk outstanding, under the assumption that clients tend to absorb liquidity from available credit
resources before financial problems become apparent to the client’s creditors. EAD is largely a function of the type of credit facility
(overdraft, revolving, term) offered to the borrower.

•

Loss Given Default (LGD): The third element is the loss given default. LGD models are intended to estimate the amount ING would
lose after liquidating collateral pledged in association with a given loan or financial obligation, or alternatively, from liquidating the
company as a whole as part of a workout process. LGD models are based on cover types, estimated recovery rates given orderly
liquidation, and (in)direct cost of liquidation.

•

Maturity (M): The fourth element is the time to the maturity of the underlying financial obligation. Regulatory requirements
(CRR/CRDIV) floor the maturity element at one year and cap it at five years.

•

Exposure Class: The fifth element is the exposure class (a regulatory prescribed grouping of a common obligor type or product
type) which is a driver for the correlation factor. To calculate risk-weighted assets the default correlation between a transaction
and all other transactions in the portfolio is taken into account.

The expected loss (EL) provides a measure of the value of the credit losses that ING may reasonably expect to incur on its portfolio. In
its basic form, the expected loss can be represented as:
EL = PD * EAD * LGD

Securitisations

ING has implemented the AIRB approach for credit risk. As a consequence, ING uses the rating based approach (RBA) for investments
in tranches of asset-backed securities (ABS) and mortgage-backed securities (MBS) which have been rated by external rating agencies.
Rating agencies which are used by ING under the RBA include Standard & Poor’s, Fitch and Moody’s.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

242

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Under the RBA, the RWA are determined by multiplying the amount of the exposure by the appropriate regulatory risk weights, which
depend on:
• The external rating or an available inferred rating;
• The seniority of the position; and
• The granularity of the position.
ING uses the internal assessment approach for the support facilities it provides to asset backed commercial paper (ABCP) conduit Mont
Blanc Capital Corp., based on externally published rating agency methodologies. For more details about the internal assessment
approach, see the Sponsor securitisations section in the Pillar 3 disclosure.

Credit risk models

Within ING internal Basel compliant models are used to determine the PD, EAD and LGD for regulatory and economic capital and for
loan loss provisioning purposes. These credit risk models also form the basis for our IFRS9 provisioning framework. Bank wide, ING has
implemented around 72 credit risk models, including various sub models that may be applicable for a specific portfolio.
There are two main types of modelling which form the foundation of these PD, EAD and LGD models used throughout the Bank:
• Statistical models are created where a large set of default or detailed loss data is available. They are characterised by a sufficient
number of data points that facilitate meaningful statistical estimation of the model parameters. The model parameters are
estimated with statistical techniques based on the data set available;
• Hybrid models contain characteristics of statistical models combined with knowledge and experience of experts from both risk
management and front office staff and literature from rating agencies, supervisors and academics. These models are especially
appropriate for ‘Low Default Portfolios’, where limited historical defaults exist.
Next to the model choice, the definition of default is an important starting point for model building. ING uses a framework that
integrates elements of the regulatory definition of default and the loan loss provisioning indicators under IAS 39. The rationale is that
several indicators are very close to the indications of an obligor’s ‘unlikeliness to pay’ under European regulation (CRR/CRDIV) and
similar regulations. Integration of both frameworks further enhances ING’s compliance with the CRR/CRDIV ‘use test’. Key differences
between the parameters used for loan loss provisioning and regulatory capital calculations are that regulatory capital parameters are
typically through the cycle while loan loss parameters are more at a point in time. Additionally, the LGD for regulatory capital
calculations is based on a down-turn LGD and a Loss Emergence Period is applied for loan loss provisioning purposes on the 1 year
Default Probability to obtain Incurred losses.

Pre-settlement measurement models

For regulatory capital, pre-settlement (PS) exposure is calculated using a marked to market (MtM) plus regulatory-based add-on. For
internal capital purposes ING uses a combination of the below mentioned methodologies to calculate its PS exposures:
•

•

MtM plus model based add-on approach: In this approach, the PS risk is calculated as the sum of the MtM of the trade and a
model-based add-on. The MtM fluctuates through the life of the contract. The model-based add-on is product-specific, and takes
into account the remaining time to maturity, profiling per time-buckets etc. Add-ons are updated with a frequency that takes into
account major market changes. This methodology is used for pre-deal exposure assessment of all ING financial markets products.
Furthermore, it is used for post-deal risk calculations in the case of financial markets portfolios that do not justify the
computational efforts and costs associated with implementation of a Scenario Simulation approach; and
Scenario Simulation approach (Monte Carlo approach): Scenario Simulation approach is the most complex of the methods for PS
risk calculations. This approach takes into account daily market conditions, including correlations between the risk factors and
portfolio benefits. This Monte Carlo approach is currently used in ING for the largest volume of derivative products such as foreign
exchange (FX) and interest rate derivatives.

ING recognises that the above approaches are not sufficiently accurate for certain trading products such as highly structured or exotic
derivative transactions. For the assessment of risk exposures of such complex products a bespoke calculation is made.
There are no exposures under the advanced, Internal Model Method (IMM) under Pillar 1. Under Pillar 2 ING uses the IMM for FX and
interest rate derivative exposures.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

243

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

The figure below provides a high level summary of the application of model outcomes (PD, EAD and LGD).
Credit Scoring /Acceptance

Performance Measurement

Regulatory Capital /RWA
CRR / CRD IV Risk Components
PD/ EAD/ LGD Maturity

Economic Capital

Loan Loss Provisioning

Loan Pricing

Credit risk model governance

All PD, EAD and LGD models are built according to ING’s internal credit risk modelling methodology standards and model life cycle.
After thorough review of the documentation by the Model Development Committee (MDC) and Model Risk Management (MRM), the
Credit & Trading Risk Committee (CTRC) approves the models. For certain local models, the approval authority is delegated by the CTRC
to the MDC. Each model has both a credit risk and a front office co-sponsor. Both the MDC and the CTRC have participation from senior
credit risk management as well as the front office to ensure maximum acceptance by the organisation. The capital impact from the
implementation of approved models is reported to the ECB in a quarterly report. In addition, MRM validates each model on an annual
basis. During such periodical validation the model performance is analysed through back-testing and performance assessment. A fivegrade colour footprint is assigned to each model during this periodical validation. If a model is considered insufficiently robust or if the
back-testing indicates insufficient performance, then the model is re-calibrated or re-developed.
Model Life Cycle
process stages:
1.
Project
Initiation

2.
Model
Development

3.
Pre-approval
Validation

4.
Model
Implementation

5.
Project
Closure

6.
Model
Monitoring

7.
Periodic
Validation

Sign-oﬀ points:

Credit risk rating process

In principle all risk ratings are based on a Risk Rating (PD) Model that complies with the minimum requirements detailed in CRR/CRDIV,
ECB Supervisory Rules and EBA guidelines. This concerns all counterparty types and segments.
ING’s PD rating models are based on a 1-22 scale (1=highest rating; 22=lowest rating) referred to as the ‘Master scale’, which roughly
corresponds to the same rating grades that are assigned by external rating agencies, such as Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch.
For example, an ING rating of 1 corresponds to an S&P/Fitch rating of AAA and a Moody’s rating of Aaa; an ING rating of 2 corresponds
to an S&P/Fitch rating of AA+ and a Moody’s rating of Aa1, and so on.
The 22 grades are composed of the following categories:
• Investment grade (Risk Rating 1-10);
• Non-investment grade (Risk Rating 11-17);
• Sub-standard (Risk Rating 18-19); and
• Non-performing (Risk Rating 20-22).
The three first categories (1-19) are risk ratings for performing loans. They are calculated in IT systems with internally developed
models based on data either manually or automatically fed. Under certain conditions, the outcome of a manually fed model can be
challenged through a clearly defined rating appeal process. Risk ratings for non-performing individually significant loans (20-22) are
set by the global or regional restructuring. For securitisation portfolios, the external ratings of the tranche in which ING has invested
are leading.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

244

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Risk ratings assigned to clients are regularly, at least annually, reviewed, and the performance of the underlying models regularly
monitored. Over 94% of ING’s credit exposures have been rated using one of the in-house developed PD rating models. Within the AIRB
Portfolio, the level of Regulatory compliant ratings exceeds 99% coverage by exposure. Some of these models are global in nature,
such as models for Large Corporates, Commercial Banks, Insurance Companies, Central Governments, Local Governments, Funds, Fund
Managers, Project Finance and Leveraged Companies. While other models are more regional or country specific, such as PD models for
Small Medium Enterprise (SME) companies in Central Europe, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, as well as residential mortgage
and consumer loan models in the various retail markets.
Rating Models for retail clients are predominantly statistically driven and automated, such that ratings can be updated on a monthly
or bi-monthly basis. Models for SME companies, and larger corporates, institutions and banks are manually updated, and are
individually monitored on at least an annual basis.

Exposure classes

The BCBS has developed the concept of ‘Exposure Classes’ which has been transposed into CRR/CRDIV. These are essentially groupings
of credit risks associated with a common client type, product type and/or cover type. For the AIRB Approach, most of the exposure
classes have subcategories. ING has applied the following definitions to determine Exposure Classes:
• Sovereigns include Sovereign Government entities, Central Banks and recognised Local / Regional Authorities as well as
Supranational Organisations;
• Institutions include Commercial Banks, non-Bank Financial Institutions, such as Funds and Fund Managers, and Insurance
Companies, as well as local and regional government entities not classified as governments;
• Corporates includes all legal entities, that are not considered to be Governments, Institutions or Retail Other;
• Retail includes the following classes:
• Retail – Secured by immovable property non-SME (hereafter Residential Mortgages) includes all retail loans which are
covered by residential properties
• Retail - Secured by immovable property SME (included in tables with Other Retail) includes all retail loans which are covered
by commercial properties.
• Other Retail includes all other credit obligations related to Retail SMEs (such as partnerships and one-man businesses) and
private individuals (such as consumer loans, car loans and credit cards). Under these exposure class definitions, it is possible for
a private individual to have exposure classified as both residential mortgages and retail other.
• Securitisations include securitisation programs for which ING acts as an investor, sponsor or originator.

Models used for exposure classes

ING has developed PD, EAD and LGD models for Wholesale Banking and Retail Banking portfolios. PD, EAD and LGD models are subject
to CTRC (or in some delegated cases MDC) approval and changes which significantly impact the results require approval from the
regulator before implementation. By nature, the above described exposure classes have different, specific characteristics. To capture
these specific characteristics and to have suitable valuations and analyses in place, Model Development is continuously updating and
developing models within each exposure class. In total, ING makes use of over 72 different internal models.
ING distinguishes four types of post default scenarios:
• No Loss – Cure: the borrower pays all overdue amounts (to the extent ING is legally entitled to) and the asset becomes nondefaulted again. ING does not experience any loss in the process. The relationship is not terminated and the borrower returns back
to performing;
• No Loss – Exit without loss: ING (or the borrower) liquidates collaterals and calls guarantees in order to recover the exposure or the
borrower fully repays. Thereafter the relationship is terminated. ING does not experience any loss in the process;
• Loss – Exit with loss: ING (or the borrower) liquidates collaterals and calls guarantees in order to recover the exposure. Thereafter
the relationship is terminated. ING suffers loss in the process; and
• Loss – Distressed Restructuring: ING restructures the loan agreement so as to recover the exposure after allowing some discount.
The relationship with the borrower continues after the restructuring. ING suffers (some) loss in the process.
AIRB models per exposure class
In the table below, the number of significant PD, EAD, and LGD models per asset class are shown. Additionally a description of the
model and methodology are provided per exposure class. The asset classes presented in this table do not align with the EBA Exposure
classes as the scope has been redefined to better fit the scope of the model. SME exposure for example can be part of either corporate
exposures or other retail depending on the size of the SME.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

245

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

AIRB models and methodology
Number of
Model significant
Type
models Model description and methodology

Sovereigns

Government
related
entities

Financial
institutions

Corporates Specialized
lending

Large
Corporates

SME

Secured by
Res. Mortgage

Private
Individuals
Other1

1
2

Number of
years of
data

PD

1

The Government Central PD model is a fully statistical model, containing only quantitative risk drivers.

>7 years

LGD

1

The LGD model for Sovereigns and other governments is an unsecured recovery model built on
assessment of structural factors that influence a country’s performance.

>7 years

EAD

1

>7 years

PD

1

LGD

1

EAD

1

The Low Default EAD model is a hybrid model that pools default information from multiple low default
portfolios, including central governments and central banks.
The government related entities PD model is expert based and assigns ratings based on stand-alone
credit fundamentals as well as degree of government support.
The LGD model for Government related entities is a secured/unsecured recovery model built on
assessment of stand-alone fundamentals as well as geography.
The Low Default EAD model is a hybrid model that pools default information from multiple low default
portfolios, including government related entities.

PD

3

The main PD model applied is Bank Commercial based upon financial, qualitative and country
information. Other PD models for different types of financial institutions are built using a similar
framework, but are more specialised for the specific characteristics of the financial institution.

>7 years

LGD

1

This LGD model was developed based on expert judgement, supported by limited internal and external
data. The developed LGD model is based on ultimate recovery rates.

>7 years

EAD

1

>7 years

PD

3

LGD

3

EAD

1

The Low Default EAD model is a hybrid model used that pools default information from multiple low
default portfolios, including financial institutions.
Expert based scorecards Models predict a rating for Commercial Property Finance, Project Finance,
Trade and Commodity Finance.
Hybrid LGD Models predict loss given default for Commercial Property Finance, Project Finance, Trade
and Commodity Finance.
There is a dedicated EAD model for commercial property finance due to the specificities of this
portfolio.

PD

1

The Corporate Large model is a global hybrid model build on 13 years of data, including balance sheet
and qualitative information as well as country risk and parent influence.

>7 years

LGD

1

Loss Given Default for Large corporates are predicted by a dedicated hybrid LGD model using both no
loss rates as well as secured/unsecured recovery rates.

>7 years

EAD

1

The Low Default EAD model is a hybrid model used that pools default information from multiple low
default portfolios, including large corporates.

>7 years

PD

6

The SME PD models are estimated statistically and directly predict a PD. Most of these models are
developed locally to reflect regional/jurisdiction circumstances.

>7 years

LGD

6

Local statistical models or hybrid models use various data inputs on cure behaviour as well as cost and
recovery.

>7 years

EAD

6

PD

71

LGD

7

Local statistical models that use various data inputs, including product type and geography.
>7 years
The PD mortgages models are all developed statistically and include borrower specific information,
>52 years
payment behaviour and product related information. These are statistical models that directly predict a
PD.
Local statistical models or hybrid models use various data inputs on cure behaviour as well as cost and >7 years
recovery

>7 years
>7 years
>7 years

>7 years
>7 years
>7 years

EAD

7

Local statistical models that use various data inputs, including product type and geography.

>7 years

PD

41

The PD models for private individuals are all developed statistically and include borrower specific
information, payment behaviour and product related information. These are statistical models that
directly predict a PD.

>52 years

LGD

4

Local statistical models use various data inputs on cure behaviour as well as cost and recovery.

>7 years

EAD

4

Local statistical models that use various data inputs, including product type and geography.

>7 years

Other

(Covered Bonds, Structured assets)

Belgian PD models provide a rating at a customer level, covering both secured and unsecured loans.
For retail PD modelling a minimum of 5 years is allowed based on ING’s Modelling Standards, which are compliant with regulatory requirements

Changes in 2017 to credit risk models

Model changes in 2017 were largely driven by follow up on existing regulatory guidance and overall resulted in a EUR 3.4 billion
increase in RWA. The largest change was due to the introduction of a new PD and LGD model for the Dutch Mortgages portfolio. This
update led to an increase of EUR 3.9 billion in RWA driven by the deterioration of the LGD. The recalibration of the German Mortgages
models resulted in a decrease in RWA of EUR 1.2 billion.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

246

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Credit risk tools
Credit risk policies

ING’s credit risk policies provide for generic rules and roles and responsibilities that always prevail within the organisation. While
allowance is given for discretionary variation to comply with local regulations, such variations must always comply with the content of
a global ING wide credit risk policy and approved by (local) credit risk. All credit risk policies are created according to policy
development standards and reviewed on a regular basis. Each policy has a credit risk sponsor and is created in close consultation with
various stakeholders within credit risk, front office and where applicable other corporate departments. All policies require approval by
the CTRC and where applicable by the GCTP.

Credit risk systems and data standards

The acceptance, maintenance, measurement, management and reporting of credit risks at all levels of ING is executed through
promotion of single, common credit risk data standards and the integration into common credit risk tools that support standardised
and transparent credit risk practices. ING has chosen to develop credit risk tools centrally. The philosophy is use a single source of data,
in an integrated approach that includes ING policy, the regulatory environment in which we operate, and the daily processes which
are active throughout the group. Application to these three areas is the essential requirement to ensure data quality standards and
discipline remains high.
The customer-centric data model conforms to the three core business needs of ING:
• To transact efficiently with our counterparties;
• To be compliant with our internal and external obligations; and
• To monitor the risks we undertake.
The customer-centric approach ensures that ING can react quickly to changing regulations, business needs and best practices in our
dealings with our clients and prospects.

Data Governance and Data Quality

ING recognises that information and underlying data are assets that are key (together with people, processes and IT systems) to
further develop its digital profile. Cooperation and mutual agreement on global data management roles and responsibilities in ING are
critical success factors to meet this objective. As such ING has embraced multiple data management and governance initiatives
triggered by internal and external stakeholders (e.g. Principles for Effective Risk Data Aggregation and Risk Reporting). In the Financial
Risk and Risk COO departments, these principles are embedded into the credit risk data management and enshrined within the Data
Governance framework. The framework outlines roles and responsibilities relevant for the credit risk lifecycle and data quality
assurance.

Credit risk data lifecycle

The credit risk data governance framework used by ING is based on the credit risk data lifecycle. The governance related to the data
delivery and exchange is described in various data agreements between data users and data suppliers.
The scope of credit risk data is the data set determined and assigned for ING’s external and internal reporting requirements and credit
risk modelling requirements. Principally, data can be categorised into one of the two following types:
• Atomic data: the lowest level of detail and provides the base data for all data transformations. The guiding principles are that
each data element is only input once, and have a clear data owner and ‘home’ system or database which is leading throughout all
uses of that data element. From the data ‘home’, the data may then be redistributed to other systems or databases that may
require that data in an automated Straight through Processing (STP) method. Depending on the need, the data may be transferred
in real time, near real time, daily, weekly or monthly.
• Derived data: data derived from other data elements (atomic or derived) as a result of data transformations such as credit risk
models, calculations and aggregation. Derived data is hosted in the central credit risk system (Vortex).
A key component of credit risk data is that this data is continuously used throughout all the stages of the credit risk management
cycle. By using and re-using data, there is a continuous incentive for all data providers and users to assure high standard data quality
with regards to data delivery and data usage.
The credit risk data lifecycle describes the interlinked stages of the lifecycle from data definition to data usage as shown in the figure
below:

Deﬁnitions

Capture

Exchange

Data Quality Assurance

ING Group Annual Report 2017

247

Processing
and Calculations

Usage

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Data Definitions: this process step ensures that atomic and derived credit risk data terms have a single definition and definition
owner throughout the organization. It also ensures that defined data is fit for the purpose it will be used for.
• Capture: ensures that atomic data is captured by business units and is available for exchange according to pre-agreed standards
and specifications.
• Exchange: ensures data exchange is executed as agreed between data owner and data user.
• Processing & Calculation: processes delivered atomic data and uses it to calculate credit risk derived data. The outcome of this
stage is used as input for credit risk data aggregation in for example risk reporting.
• Data Usage: ensures data aggregation and usage fit for multiple purposes for example modelling, regulatory and statutory
reporting. Ensures that data usage or distribution is according to agreed purpose and data confidentiality, protection, security and
retention rules.
• Data Quality Assurance: establishes data quality management with the primary focus how credit risk data quality is managed
throughout the credit risk data lifecycle. It covers the data quality cycle, data quality criteria and relevant activities through the
stages.
The data quality cycle consists of four stages: define, implement, monitor and improve. During the data definitions step, data
quality rules are determined. Having set the definitions, local data quality rules are implemented in the source systems, and both
successively and simultaneously, data quality rules are implemented in the central credit risk system. The next stage consists of
data validations, monitoring and control activities performed early in the data exchange and after data processing and calculation
stage. The last stage is the continuous improvement of data quality which can be split into two categories:
• One off issues and reoccurring issues that are identified, prioritised and subject to resolution;
• The periodic review of data quality rules and improvements based on lessons learned from solving issues, audits and best
practices.
After the last stage, the data quality cycle resumes from the start, ultimately leading to high standard credit risk data quality.

•

Credit risk portfolio

ING’s credit exposure is mainly related to traditional lending to individuals and businesses followed by investments in bonds and other
securitised assets. Loans to individuals are mainly mortgage loans secured by residential property. Loans (including guarantees
issued) to businesses are often collateralised, but can be unsecured based on internal analysis of the borrowers’ creditworthiness.
Bonds in the investment portfolio are generally unsecured. Securitised assets such as mortgage backed securities and asset backed
securities are secured by the pro rata portion of the underlying diversified pool of assets (commercial or residential mortgages, car
loans and/or other assets) held by the security‘s issuer. The last major credit risk source involves pre-settlement exposures which arise
from trading activities, including derivatives, repurchase transactions and securities lending/borrowing transactions. This is also
identified as counterparty credit risk.
Unless specifically stated, the figures in the tables included in the credit risk section are calculated on the basis of CRR/CRD IV
regulatory standards and includes ‘intercompany loans’ to ING Group. The portfolio breakdown of ING per exposure class and per risk
category is shown below.
Exposure classes: ING Bank portfolio per risk category, as % of total regulatory EAD
Total

Total (ALL)

2017

AIRB

Lending
SA

AIRB

Investment
SA

AIRB

Money Market
SA

Pre-Settlement
AIRB

SA

AIRB

SA

AIRB + SA

Sovereigns

1.8%

0.2%

7.0%

0.1%

2.4%

0.1%

0.4%

0.0%

11.6%

0.4%

12.0%

Institutions

3.9%

0.6%

1.1%

0.0%

0.3%

0.0%

3.8%

0.1%

9.2%

0.6%

9.8%

Corporate

33.7%

0.8%

0.4%

0.0%

0.1%

0.0%

1.3%

0.0%

35.5%

0.8%

36.3%

Residential mortgages

33.4%

1.9%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

33.4%

1.9%

35.3%

Other retail

4.5%

1.3%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

4.5%

1.3%

5.8%

Securitisation

0.2%

0.0%

0.6%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.8%

0.0%

0.8%

77.6%

4.7%

9.1%

0.1%

2.7%

0.2%

5.5%

0.1%

94.9%

5.1%

100.0%

Total

ING Group Annual Report 2017

248

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Exposure classes: ING Bank portfolio per risk category, as % of total regulatory EAD
Total

Total (ALL)

2016

AIRB

Lending
SA

AIRB

Investment
SA

AIRB

Money Market
SA

Pre-Settlement
AIRB

SA

AIRB

SA

AIRB + SA

Sovereigns

2.2%

0.0%

7.9%

0.1%

1.7%

0.2%

0.2%

0.0%

12.0%

0.3%

12.3%

Institutions

3.1%

0.3%

1.8%

0.0%

0.4%

0.0%

4.9%

0.1%

10.2%

0.3%

10.5%

Corporate

32.8%

1.4%

0.4%

0.0%

0.1%

0.0%

1.7%

0.0%

35.0%

1.5%

36.5%

Residential mortgages

33.4%

0.9%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

33.4%

0.9%

34.3%

Other retail

4.2%

1.4%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

4.2%

1.4%

5.6%

Securitisation

0.1%

0.0%

0.6%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.1%

0.0%

0.8%

0.0%

0.8%

75.8%

4.0%

10.8%

0.1%

2.1%

0.2%

6.9%

0.1%

95.6%

4.4%

100.0%

Total

During 2017, the total ING portfolio size decreased by 0.5% to EUR 842 billion READ (EUR 774 billion outstandings) mainly driven by
foreign exchange rate changes partly offset by volume growth. The decrease related to foreign exchange rate changes was driven by
the depreciation of the US Dollar (12.2%) and Australian Dollar (5.1%) against the euro. The concentration in SA portfolio increased
mainly driven by a combination of volume growth and portfolio shifts from AIRB to SA approach.
The concentration in corporates slightly decreased mainly caused by shift in exposure from corporate lending SA bucket to residential
mortgage SA bucket to align the scope with regular capital reporting practices. The increase in AIRB bucket was mainly driven by
volume growth in the Wholesale Banking portfolios of Transaction Services, Corporate & Financial Institutions (C&FI) Lending and
Structured Finance. The volume growth in C&FI Lending was mainly observed in Belgium and Germany, growth in Transaction Services
was mainly witnessed in Asia while growth in Structured Finance was mainly observed in Europe. The growth was partly offset by the
depreciation of the US Dollar which mainly impacted the Structured Finance portfolio.
In residential mortgages, the concentration increased mainly due to shifting exposure from corporate lending SA bucket to the
residential mortgage SA bucket to align the scope with regular capital reporting practices. The decline was mainly visible in the
Netherlands due to repayments in the core mortgage book, continued transfer of mortgages from WestlandUtrecht (WU) Bank to NN
Bank and the run-off of the WU Bank mortgage book. This was partly offset by growth in residential mortgages in Belgium, Germany,
Poland and Spain.
In other retail, the concentration increased mostly driven by a higher volume of consumer loans in the retail portfolios in Retail
Challengers and Growth Markets.
The concentration in sovereigns declined caused by a decrease in government bond exposures of France, the Netherlands, Austria and
Belgium, which was partly offset by increase in money market exposure towards the central banks of Luxembourg and Belgium. The
concentration in institutions went down due to a decline in interest rate derivatives to a central counterparty clearinghouse.

Risk rating buckets per line of business and credit risk types

Risk rating buckets are defined based upon the quality of the exposures in terms of creditworthiness, varying from investment grade
to non-performing loan expressed in S&P, Moody’s and Fitch rating equivalents.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

249

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Risk classes: ING Bank portfolio per line of business, as % of total outstandings1,2,3
Wholesale Banking

Retail Benelux

Retail Challengers &
Growth Markets

Corporate Line

Total

Rating class

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

1 (AAA)

6.0%

7.1%

0.2%

0.2%

7.3%

7.3%

57.5%

42.7%

5.5%

5.5%

2-4 (AA)

11.4%

11.9%

3.1%

5.7%

16.3%

16.1%

0.1%

0.3%

10.1%

11.0%

5-7 (A)

20.2%

18.9%

8.2%

4.2%

19.8%

15.0%

4.8%

3.9%

16.4%

13.4%

8-10 (BBB)

27.5%

27.0%

42.3%

34.5%

28.1%

32.7%

26.7%

7.5%

31.9%

30.5%

11-13 (BB)

26.9%

26.5%

34.6%

43.2%

21.0%

21.5%

8.3%

42.2%

27.3%

30.3%

14-16 (B)

5.2%

5.5%

7.1%

7.5%

5.6%

5.6%

0.0%

0.0%

5.8%

6.1%

17-22 (CCC & NPL)

2.8%

3.0%

4.5%

4.7%

1.9%

1.8%

2.6%

3.5%

3.0%

3.2%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

Total

1 Based on credit risk measurement contained in lending, pre-settlement, money market and investment activities.
2 Covered bonds are presented on the basis of the external credit rating of the issuer in question. Covered bond issues generally possess a better external credit
rating than the issuer standalone, given structural features of such covered bonds.
3 Outstandings (OS) split per business line: Wholesale Banking (EUR 335 billion OS), Retail Benelux (EUR 225 billion OS), Retail Challengers & Growth Markets (EUR 201
billion OS), Corporate Line (EUR 12 billion OS).

Overall the rating class concentration improved, decreased concentrations are observed for all classes below rating class BBB whereas
the other classes mainly show increased concentrations. The overall exposure for ING remained concentrated in the BBB and BB rating
classes.
For AAA-rated assets, the concentration in Wholesale Banking reduced while it increased in Corporate Line due to a shift of the
regulatory reserve deposits at the Dutch Central Bank between these business lines. The decrease in Wholesale Banking was partly
offset by increase in money market assets to the central banks of Luxembourg and Belgium. The concentration in the A rating class
for Wholesale Banking increased mainly driven by an improved rating for one German financial institution shifting pre-settlement
exposure from rating class BBB to A. The increase in rating class A was partly offset by decreased exposure in money market assets for
Wholesale Banking. A rating upgrade of the Bank of Beijing shifted equity investment exposure from rating class BB to rating class BBB
in Corporate Line.
The rating distribution for Retail Benelux improved mostly driven by an updated Dutch mortgage PD model shifting concentration from
risk classes BBB to A. Further positive risk migration in Retail Netherlands was due to positive rating changes and decreased defaulted
exposures. Following a one notch rating downgrade for the government of Belgium, Belgian government related organisations were
downgraded throughout the year shifting exposure from rating class AA to A. In Retail Challengers & Growth Markets exposures
shifted from rating class BBB to A following a refinement of the PD mortgage model in Retail Germany. The decrease in rating class
BBB was partly offset by an update of the ING Italy mortgage PD model increasing concentration in rating class BBB.
Risk classes: ING Bank portfolio per credit risk type, as % of total outstandings1,2
Lending

Investment

Money Market

Pre-settlement

Total

Rating class

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

1 (AAA)

1.8%

1.9%

29.7%

28.3%

22.6%

14.5%

5.4%

3.4%

5.5%

5.5%

2-4 (AA)

4.5%

5.2%

39.6%

40.4%

58.8%

50.4%

14.0%

14.8%

10.1%

11.0%

5-7 (A)

14.2%

10.1%

17.6%

16.9%

7.3%

14.0%

49.0%

47.5%

16.4%

13.4%

8-10 (BBB)

36.6%

35.3%

9.6%

6.9%

3.0%

4.2%

19.4%

23.3%

31.9%

30.5%

11-13 (BB)

32.2%

36.0%

3.3%

7.2%

7.9%

15.4%

10.2%

9.1%

27.3%

30.3%

14-16 (B)

7.0%

7.5%

0.0%

0.2%

0.4%

1.5%

1.4%

1.5%

5.8%

6.1%

17-22 (CCC & NPL)

3.7%

4.0%

0.2%

0.1%

0.0%

0.0%

0.6%

0.4%

3.0%

3.2%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

Total

1 Based on credit risk measurement contained in lending, pre-settlement, money market and investment activities.
2 Covered bonds are presented on the basis of the external credit rating of the issuer in question. Covered bond issues generally possess a better external credit
rating than the issuer standalone, given structural features of such covered bonds.

Risk industry concentration

ING uses a common industry classification methodology based on the NAICS system (North American Industry Classification System).
This methodology has over 1,500 detailed industry descriptions, which are aggregated into 22 industry classes at the highest level.
Certain countries require ING to report locally based on other industry classification methodologies, which are generally derived from
the NAICS classifications presented here. Residential mortgages are generally only extended to private individuals.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

250

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Risk concentration: ING Bank portfolio per economic sector, as % of total outstandings1
Wholesale Banking

Retail Benelux

Retail Challengers &
Growth Markets

Corporate Line

Total

Industry

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

Private Individuals

0.0%

0.0%

72.6%

73.4%

72.6%

68.8%

0.0%

0.0%

40.1%

39.5%

Commercial Banks

14.7%

14.8%

0.1%

0.2%

4.9%

6.5%

40.1%

56.4%

8.3%

8.8%

Natural Resources

15.7%

15.0%

0.4%

0.4%

0.6%

0.7%

0.0%

0.0%

7.1%

6.8%

Real Estate

10.8%

10.2%

5.1%

4.7%

1.0%

0.9%

0.0%

0.0%

6.4%

6.0%

Central Governments

8.7%

9.9%

1.1%

0.9%

4.9%

5.6%

26.4%

36.3%

5.8%

6.5%

Non-Bank Financial
Institutions

9.7%

10.4%

1.0%

0.9%

1.2%

3.2%

6.5%

7.3%

4.9%

5.7%

Transportation &
Logistics

7.3%

8.0%

1.2%

1.1%

0.4%

0.4%

0.0%

0.0%

3.6%

3.9%

Central Banks

4.7%

5.1%

0.1%

0.1%

1.9%

1.6%

27.0%

0.0%

3.0%

2.7%

Services

3.7%

3.2%

4.0%

3.6%

0.6%

0.6%

0.0%

0.0%

2.9%

2.6%

Food, Beverages &
Personal Care

3.8%

3.7%

2.2%

2.1%

1.3%

1.3%

0.0%

0.0%

2.6%

2.6%

Lower Public
Administration

1.1%

1.2%

2.2%

2.8%

5.8%

5.6%

0.0%

0.0%

2.6%

2.8%

General Industries

4.0%

3.4%

1.6%

1.5%

1.5%

1.5%

0.0%

0.0%

2.6%

2.3%

Chemicals, Health &
Pharmaceuticals

2.5%

2.4%

2.8%

2.8%

0.7%

0.7%

0.0%

0.0%

2.1%

2.1%

Other

13.3%

12.7%

5.6%

5.5%

2.6%

2.6%

0.0%

0.0%

8.0%

7.7%

Total

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

1 Based on the total amount of credit risk in the respective column using ING’s internal credit risk measurement methodologies. Economic sectors below 2% are not
shown separately but grouped in Other.

The main concentration in Private Individuals is related to mortgage lending. Mortgage volume growth, mainly in Belgium, Germany
and Spain, was offset by a decline in mortgage exposures in Netherlands. The decrease in the Netherlands was due to repayments in
the core mortgage book, continued transfer of mortgages from WestlandUtrecht (WU) Bank to NN Bank and the run-off of the WU
Bank mortgage book.
The concentration in Central Governments decreased following a reduction in government bond exposures of France, the Netherlands,
Austria and Belgium within Wholesale Banking and Retail Challengers & Growth Markets. In the Wholesale Banking portfolio this was
partly offset by an increase in US government bonds
The concentration in Non-Bank Financial Institutions decreased due to lower pre-settlement exposures in Wholesale Banking
Netherlands and lower exposures in covered bonds and asset backed securities in Retail Challengers & Growth Markets. Further, the
depreciation of the US Dollar against the euro caused a decrease in concentration in the Transportation & Logistics and Non-Bank
Financial Institutions sectors within Wholesale Banking. Within Central Banks, the increase in concentration in Corporate Line is
explained by the shift of the regulatory reserve deposits at the Dutch Central Bank from the Wholesale Banking. Following this shift the
proportions of the other buckets in Corporate Line decreased.

Country risk

The country risk concentration changes for the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany were mainly related to the residential mortgage
loans. Additionally, for the Netherlands exposures to the Dutch central bank shifted from Wholesale Banking to Corporate Line. The
concentration in the Rest of Europe decreased in Retail Challengers & Growth Markets mainly due to reduction in bond investments in
Spain and lending exposure in Turkey. In Asia, the concentration in Wholesale Banking increased mainly driven by higher exposures to
financial institutions in China and corporates in Taiwan and United Arab Emirates. Further, the decrease in concentration in Asia for
the Corporate Line was related to lower investment exposure.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

251

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Country risk exposures: ING Bank portfolio, by geographic area1
Wholesale Banking

Region

Retail Benelux

Retail Challengers &
Growth Markets

Corporate Line

Total

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

12.8%

14.2%

62.3%

65.5%

0.2%

0.5%

64.4%

50.6%

24.0%

25.7%

Germany

5.7%

5.4%

0.2%

0.2%

46.0%

44.4%

0.3%

0.1%

13.8%

13.3%

Belgium

6.8%

6.2%

35.1%

32.1%

0.3%

0.5%

0.0%

0.0%

12.9%

12.0%

41.0%

40.8%

2.2%

2.0%

34.4%

35.5%

0.6%

0.2%

28.3%

28.2%

Americas

19.5%

19.5%

0.1%

0.1%

1.2%

1.5%

0.1%

0.1%

9.5%

9.5%

Asia/Pacific

11.9%

11.6%

0.1%

0.1%

0.1%

0.1%

34.5%

48.8%

6.1%

6.0%

Australia

1.4%

1.3%

0.0%

0.0%

17.8%

17.5%

0.1%

0.2%

5.0%

4.8%

Rest of World

0.9%

1.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.4%

0.5%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

Netherlands
Europe

Rest of Europe²

Total

1 Geographic areas are based on country of residence, except for private individuals for which the geographic areas are based on the primary country of risk.
2 The top 5 exposures within Rest of Europe are to the United Kingdom (3.8%), Poland (3.8%), France (3.2%), Spain (3.1%) and Italy (2.4%).

Credit risk mitigation

ING’s lending and investment businesses are subject to credit risk. As such, the creditworthiness of our customers and investments is
continually monitored for their ability to meet their financial obligations to ING. In addition to determine the credit quality and
creditworthiness of the customer, ING uses various credit risk mitigation techniques and instruments to mitigate the credit risk
associated with an exposure and to reduce the losses incurred subsequent to an event of default on an obligation a customer may
have towards ING. The most common terminology used in ING for credit risk protection is ‘cover’. While a cover can be an important
mitigant of credit risk and an alternative source of repayment, generally it is ING’s practice to lend on the basis of the customer’s
creditworthiness rather than exclusively relying on the value of the cover. Within ING, there are two distinct forms of covers: assets
and third party obligations.

Cover forms
Assets

The asset that has been pledged to ING as collateral or security gives ING the right to liquidate it in cases where the customer is unable
to fulfil its financial obligation. As such, the proceeds can be applied towards full or partial compensation of the customer's
outstanding exposure. An asset can be tangible (such as cash, securities, receivables, inventory, plant & machinery and mortgages on
real estate properties) or intangible (such as patents, trademarks, contract rights and licenses).

Third party obligation

Third party obligation, indemnification or undertaking (either by contract and/or by law) is a legally binding declaration by a third
party that gives ING the right to expect and claim from that third party to pay an amount, if the customer fails on its obligations to
ING. The most common examples are guarantees (such as parent guarantees and export credit insurances) and letters of comfort.

Cover valuation methodology

General guidelines for cover valuation are established to ensure consistency of the application within ING. These general guidelines
also require that the value of the cover needs to be monitored on a regular basis. Covers are revalued accordingly and whenever there
is reason to believe that the market is subject to significant changes in conditions. The frequency of monitoring and revaluation
depends on the type of covers.
The valuation method also depends on the type of covers. For asset collateral, the valuation sources can be the customer’s balance
sheet (e.g. inventory, machinery, and equipment), nominal value (e.g. cash, receivables), market value (e.g. securities and
commodities), independent valuations (commercial real estate) and market indices (residential real estate). For third party obligations,
the valuation is based on the value which is attributed to the contract between ING and that third party.

Covers

This section provides insight on the type of covers and to which extent a loan is collateralised. The cover disclosures are presented by
risk category: Lending, Investment, Money Market and Pre-settlement. The cover amounts are presented by the most relevant
collateral forms, being mortgages and financial collateral (cash and securities), and the most relevant third party obligation being
guarantees. ING obtains covers which are eligible for credit risk mitigation under CRR/CRDIV, as well as those that are not eligible.
Collateral covering financial market transactions is valued on a daily basis. To mitigate the credit risk arising from Financial Markets
transactions, the bank enters into legal agreements exchanging financial collateral (high quality government bonds and cash).

ING Group Annual Report 2017

252

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

The cover values are presented for the total portfolio of ING. Covers of both AIRB and SA portfolios are presented in detail reflecting
ING’s complete portfolio. Next to that, detailed information is provided on the cover coverage for the performing and non-performing
portfolio. The non-performing loan definition is explained in detail in the section ‘Credit Restructuring’. To understand the nature of the
collateralised loans, insight is given in the industry and geography breakdown of ING’s portfolio as well. For comparability reasons with
previous tables, outstandings are used to show ING’s portfolio.
Exposures are categorised into different Value to Loan (VTL) buckets that give insight in the level of collateralisation of ING’s portfolio.
VTL is calculated as the cover value divided by the outstandings at the balance sheet date. The cover values are indexed and exclude
any cost of liquidation. Covers can either be valid for all limits, sub-limits or a particular outstanding of a borrower, the latter being the
most common. For the purpose of aggregation, the coverage of all outstanding is capped at 100%. Over-collateralisation is ignored in
this overview for the VTL. Each limit is subsequently assigned to one of the six defined VTL buckets: no cover, >0% to 25%, >25% to
50%, >50% to 75%, >75% to <100%, and ≥ 100%. As the nature of the Pre-settlement portfolio determines that collateral is netted,
these VTL buckets are not shown.
The first two tables give an overview of the collateralisation of the total portfolio of ING Bank.
Cover values including guarantees received - Total ING Bank – 2017
Cover type
Eligible
Financial
Collateral

Other
CRR/CRDIV
eligible

Value to Loan
Non
Guaran- CRR/CRD IV
tees
eligible

Outstandings

Mortgages

Consumer Lending

308,349

512,709

3,680

338

25,130

38,551

Business Lending

320,153

134,667

15,185

99,569

90,777

128,985

Investment and Money Market

100,450

59

117

522

99.5%

0.4%

0.2%

Total Lending, Investment and
Money Market

728,951

647,376

18,923

100,024

116,429

167,536

31.9%

14.6%

53.6%

647,376

18,923

100,024

116,429

167,536

31.9%

14.6%

53.6%

Pre-settlement1
Total Bank

Partially
covered

Fully
covered

6.3%

9.3%

84.4%

35.3%

24.1%

40.6%

No Cover

44,685
773,636

1 More information on the credit risk mitigants can be found in the Pre-settlement section.

Cover values including guarantees received - Total ING Bank – 2016
Cover type
Eligible
Financial
Collateral

Other
CRR/CRDIV
eligible

Value to Loan
Non
Guaran- CRR/CRD IV
tees
eligible

Outstandings

Mortgages

Consumer Lending

304,448

486,156

3,494

391

25,846

Business Lending

310,395

128,578

17,004

89,204

98,559

Investment and Money Market

110,218

Total Lending, Investment and
Money Market

725,061

Pre-settlement1
Total Bank

No Cover

Partially
covered

Fully
covered

34,839

5.6%

14.3%

80.1%

132,672

33.6%

28.1%

38.3%

99.1%

0.3%

0.6%

989
614,734

20,498

89,595

125,395

167,511

31.8%

18.1%

50.1%

614,734

20,498

89,595

125,395

167,511

31.8%

18.1%

50.1%

50,003
775,065

1 More information on the credit risk mitigants can be found in the Pre-settlement section.

Over the year, the collateralisation level of the total portfolio improved. Excluding the pre-settlement portfolio, 53.6% of the total ING
Bank’s outstandings were fully collateralised in 2017 (2016: 50.1%). Since investments traditionally do not require covers, the
percentage for ‘no covers’ in this portfolio is close to 100%. However, 96% of the investment outstandings are investment grade.
Improved economic conditions in ING’s main markets have led to improved collateral valuations resulting in an improved coverage
ratio. The increase in business lending for ‘Other CRR/CRDIV eligible’ covers was mainly situated in the Americas region, while the
decrease in ‘Guarantees’ was seen in the Americas and Asia regions.

Consumer lending portfolio

The consumer lending portfolio accounts for 39.9% of ING Bank’s total outstandings. The consumer lending portfolio is comprised of
residential mortgage loans (92.7%) and other consumer lending loans, which mainly comprise term loans, revolvers and personal loan
to consumers. As a result, most of the collateral consists of mortgages. The mortgage values are collected in an internal central
database and in most cases external data is used to index the market value (e.g. on a quarterly basis the mortgage values for the
Netherlands are updated using the NVM house price index).

ING Group Annual Report 2017

253

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

A significant part of ING’s residential mortgage portfolio is provided in the Netherlands (42.0%), followed by other main markets such
as Germany (24.7%), Belgium & Luxembourg (11.8%) and Australia (10.7%). Given the size of the Dutch mortgage portfolio, the
valuation methodology to determine the cover values for the Dutch residential mortgages is provided below.

Dutch mortgages valuation

When a mortgage loan is granted in the Netherlands, the policy dictates maximum loan to market value (LTMV) for an existing
property and for construction property financing of 101% (in 2016: 102%). In 2018 the LTMV will reduce further to 100%. The cover
values are captured in the local systems which are subsequently fed into a central data system. All valuations are performed by
certified valuators that are registered at one of the organisations accepted by ING. In addition, the valuator must be a member of the
NVM (Nederlandse Vereniging van Makelaars – Dutch Association of Real Estate Agents), VBO (Vereniging Bemiddeling Onroerend
Goed – Association of Real Estate Brokers), VastgoedPRO (Association of Real Estate Professionals) or NVR (Nederlandse Vereniging van
Rentmeesters).

Consumer lending portfolio – cover values
The below tables show the values of different covers and the VTL split between performing and non-performing loans.
Cover values including guarantees received - Consumer lending portfolio – 2017
Cover type
Outstandings

Value to Loan

Eligible
Financial
Other
MortColla- CRR/CRD
gages
teral IV eligible

Non
Guaran- CRR/CRD
tees IV eligible No Cover

>0% 25%

>25%50%

>50% 75%

>75% <100%

≥ 100%

Performing
Residential Mortgages
(Private Individuals)

277,776

500,753

2,980

116

23,597

32,104

0.0%

0.0%

0.1%

1.2%

8.5%

90.2%

Residential Mortgages
(SME)¹

4,882

7,411

68

67

155

1,342

0.0%

0.4%

1.2%

1.6%

7.7%

89.1%

21,791

246

604

142

1,147

4,384

84.6%

0.3%

0.1%

0.2%

0.7%

14.1%

304,449 508,409

3,652

325

24,900

37,830

6.1%

0.1%

0.1%

1.1%

7.9%

84.7%

26

4

211

646

0.8%

0.2%

0.6%

4.1%

18.9%

75.4%

5

10

21

0.7%

1.9%

0.6%

1.8%

10.7%

84.2%

Other Consumer Lending
Total Performing
Non-performing
Residential Mortgages
(Private Individuals)

2,883

4,046

Residential Mortgages
(SME)¹

159

249

Other Consumer Lending
Total Non-performing
Total Consumer Lending

857

6

1

4

9

53

95.6%

0.3%

0.1%

0.2%

0.7%

3.0%

3,900

4,300

27

13

230

720

21.6%

0.3%

0.5%

3.1%

14.6%

59.9%

308,349 512,709

3,680

338

25,130

38,551

6.3%

0.1%

0.1%

1.1%

8.0%

84.4%

1 Consists mainly of residential mortgages to small one man business clients

ING Group Annual Report 2017

254

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Cover values including guarantees received - Consumer lending portfolio – 2016
Cover type
Outstandings

Value to Loan

Eligible
Financial
Other
MortColla- CRR/CRD
gages
teral IV eligible

Non
Guaran- CRR/CRD
tees IV eligible No Cover

>0% 25%

>25%50%

>50% 75%

>75% <100%

≥ 100%

Performing
Residential Mortgages
(Private Individuals)

276,412

473,271

2,754

136

24,664

29,421

0.0%

0.1%

0.1%

1.4%

13.4%

85.0%

Residential Mortgages
(SME)¹

4,439

6,911

62

70

145

827

0.0%

0.4%

0.4%

1.3%

8.6%

89.3%

19,448

1,599

647

167

761

3,939

83.6%

0.3%

0.2%

0.3%

1.0%

14.6%

300,299 481,781

3,463

373

25,570

34,187

5.4%

0.1%

0.1%

1.3%

12.5%

80.6%

Other Consumer Lending
Total Performing
Non-performing
Residential Mortgages
(Private Individuals)

3,197

4,097

29

5

255

567

0.5%

0.3%

0.8%

6.1%

27.4%

64.9%

Residential Mortgages
(SME)¹

176

265

1

10

10

25

0.8%

0.3%

1.1%

2.1%

13.4%

82.3%

Other Consumer Lending
Total Non-performing
Total Consumer Lending

776

13

1

3

11

60

94.1%

0.4%

0.2%

0.3%

1.1%

3.9%

4,149

4,375

31

18

276

652

18.0%

0.3%

0.7%

4.8%

21.9%

54.3%

304,448 486,156

3,494

391

25,846

34,839

5.6%

0.1%

0.1%

1.4%

12.7%

80.1%

1 Consists mainly of residential mortgages to small one man business clients

The collateralisation of the consumer lending portfolio continued to improve over the year 2017. The rise in collateralisation levels was
due to improved housing prices, seen over different mortgage markets, driven by the Netherlands as main market.
ING Bank’s residential mortgage outstandings increased mainly in Australia, Germany and Spain where the coverage ratio is nearly
100% and which further improved the VTL distribution. Mortgage outstandings in the Netherlands continued to decrease due to
repayments combined with the run-off and transfer of WU Bank mortgages to NN Bank. Overall NPLs have shown a substantial
improvement, especially in the Netherlands.
For the residential mortgages portfolio, the cover type guarantees relates to mortgages covered by governmental insurers under the
Nationale Hypotheek Garantie (NHG) in the Netherlands. The NHG guarantees the repayment of a loan in case of a forced property
sale.

Business lending portfolio

Business lending accounts for 41.4% of ING Bank’s total outstandings. In line with our objective to give stakeholders insight into the
portfolio, we present the business lending portfolio per industry breakdown in accordance with the NAICS definition and per region and
main market. Business Lending presented in this section does not include pre-settlement, investment and money market exposures,
which are outlined in the next sections.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

255

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Business lending per economic sector
Cover values including guarantees received - Business lending portfolio – 2017
Cover type

Industry

Outstandings

Eligible
Financial
Other
MortColla- CRR/CRD
gages
teral IV eligible

Value to Loan
Non
Guaran- CRR/CRD
tees IV eligible No Cover

>0% 25%

>25%50%

>50% 75%

>75% <100%

≥ 100%

Natural Resources

50,754

1,090

2,359

20,529

16,162

18,501

32.6%

12.4%

10.5%

10.7%

9.2%

24.6%

Real Estate

49,098

81,749

1,641

1,363

7,179

8,084

6.4%

1.1%

0.9%

3.2%

9.3%

79.2%

Transportation &
Logistics

26,352

3,151

139

21,428

6,983

7,734

19.2%

5.0%

1.3%

4.5%

12.9%

57.2%

Commercial Banks

26,265

324

126

2,370

1,624

746

86.2%

1.1%

0.2%

1.0%

2.3%

9.1%

Services

21,369

8,747

2,800

4,318

7,148

12,315

34.8%

4.0%

4.2%

5.8%

9.1%

42.1%

Food, Beverages &
Personal Care

18,739

7,170

269

7,791

7,529

15,287

26.2%

4.2%

5.2%

10.7%

11.6%

42.1%

General Industries

18,711

4,676

210

6,529

6,152

12,169

36.9%

3.4%

6.0%

7.7%

8.5%

37.5%

Non-Bank Financial
Institutions

17,394

1,774

5,362

13,018

5,070

10,255

36.4%

6.2%

5.0%

8.9%

2.6%

41.0%

Chemicals, Health &
Pharmaceuticals

14,905

8,159

240

3,381

3,171

7,239

36.3%

2.6%

3.3%

7.6%

12.1%

38.0%

Builders & Contractors1

14,242

6,517

230

4,789

4,535

7,886

35.4%

4.2%

5.0%

6.0%

8.9%

40.4%

Utilities

13,503

777

911

4,134

3,920

6,325

39.7%

8.7%

3.3%

4.8%

6.4%

37.1%

Others

48,821

10,534

899

9,918

21,302

22,444

49.7%

5.3%

4.4%

4.4%

8.3%

27.9%

320,153 134,667

15,185

99,569

90,777 128,985

35.3%

5.2%

4.3%

6.1%

8.6%

40.6%

441

3,261

0.23

3.9%

6.1%

7.3%

17.0%

42.4%

2

Total Business Lending
of which Total Nonperforming

8,531

4,132

2,947

1 In 2017 the sector ‘builders and constructors’ is shown seperately.
2 ‘Others’ comprises industries with outstandings below EUR 13 billion.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

256

2,877

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Cover values including guarantees received - Business lending portfolio – 2016
Cover type

Industry

Outstandings

Eligible
Financial
Other
MortColla- CRR/CRD
gages
teral IV eligible

Value to Loan
Non
Guaran- CRR/CRD
tees IV eligible No Cover

>0% 25%

>25%50%

>50% 75%

>75% <100%

≥ 100%

Natural Resources

50,402

3,810

3,399

19,543

20,014

23,022

22.2%

8.7%

15.3%

15.1%

15.5%

23.2%

Real Estate

45,974

72,471

1,685

1,166

7,610

8,534

5.7%

1.5%

1.4%

4.8%

12.5%

74.1%

Transportation &
Logistics

28,168

3,336

405

22,486

9,125

8,475

19.0%

3.7%

3.2%

5.6%

14.6%

53.9%

Commercial Banks

22,025

336

220

1,622

1,732

1,039

86.7%

1.9%

1.3%

0.7%

1.4%

8.0%

Services

19,252

9,010

1,389

5,420

6,034

10,369

32.4%

3.4%

5.0%

7.5%

10.9%

40.8%

Food, Beverages &
Personal Care

18,158

6,942

611

7,459

6,813

15,678

26.9%

3.4%

5.8%

11.1%

13.3%

39.5%

Non-Bank Financial
Institutions

17,211

1,885

6,060

5,338

7,268

9,075

35.5%

8.7%

6.0%

7.0%

6.1%

36.7%

General Industries

17,082

4,988

278

5,852

6,658

11,781

31.5%

3.8%

7.3%

6.8%

9.6%

41.0%

Chemicals, Health &
Pharmaceuticals

14,732

7,636

227

3,458

3,342

7,233

34.7%

3.1%

5.6%

10.6%

12.5%

33.5%

Utilities

13,160

1,359

1,167

3,309

4,306

7,354

40.9%

5.8%

2.9%

3.4%

6.1%

40.9%

Others¹

64,231

16,805

1,563

13,551

25,657

30,112

51.3%

2.5%

5.2%

5.5%

8.3%

27.2%

310,395 128,578

17,004

89,204

98,559 132,672

33.6%

4.1%

5.9%

7.4%

10.6%

38.3%

293

3,210

24.1%

4.4%

6.4%

14.2%

13.8%

37.2%

Total Business Lending
of which Total Nonperforming

9,438

4,352

3,961

3,705

1 ‘Others’ comprises industries with outstandings below EUR 13 billion.

Total business lending outstandings increased by EUR 9.8 billion, after accounting for a decline due to an FX impact of EUR 14.5 billion
following the depreciation of the US Dollar. The largest increase in outstandings is visible in Commercial Banks (19.2%) mainly driven
by growth in trade related transactions, followed by Real Estate and Services. The largest decrease was observed in Transportation &
Logistics where outstandings as well as covers declined, mainly seen in Energy Transportation in the Netherlands and United States.
Similar to the retail lending portfolio, the risk profile of the business lending portfolio continued improving in 2017. Lower NPLs and
increased levels of collateralisation contributed to this improvement. The cover values of Real Estate (traditionally a well collateralised
sector) further improved during 2017. New transactions were done on more conservative collateral terms and improved values in real
estate markets further helped to boost the total coverage in Real Estate. The major part of the overall decrease in non-performing
outstandings was in the Real Estate and Telecom (part of Others) industries while an increase was observed in Natural Recourses.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

257

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Business lending per region
Cover values including guarantees received - Business lending portfolio – 2017
Cover type
Eligible
Financial
Other
MortColla- CRR/CRD
gages
teral IV eligible

Value to Loan

Region

Outstandings

Africa

2,713

10

60

238

2,007

608

America

40,603

4,819

4,504

29,677

6,712

Asia

41,100

670

1,343

12,319

5,578

4,266

49

Belgium

46,993

32,474

Germany

11,952

Netherlands

>0% 25%

>25%50%

>50% 75%

>75% <100%

≥ 100%

26.0%

3.7%

3.2%

9.0%

19.8%

38.2%

18,799

35.0%

3.5%

5.0%

7.4%

8.4%

40.7%

15,126

9,061

45.8%

10.2%

6.1%

6.4%

4.7%

26.9%

1,018

685

857

34.8%

1.3%

3.4%

4.6%

7.3%

48.6%

1,280

6,483

18,514

27,670

27.5%

1.9%

2.7%

4.7%

6.4%

56.8%

2,067

41

575

1,485

3,400

56.3%

4.6%

4.3%

4.3%

3.6%

26.8%

62,391

51,973

2,406

24,229

8,233

13,005

26.5%

2.8%

3.5%

7.7%

15.1%

44.3%

108,822

38,389

5,502

25,029

38,014

55,585

37.8%

6.9%

4.7%

5.3%

7.6%

37.7%

320,153 134,667

15,185

99,569

90,777 128,985

35.3%

5.2%

4.3%

6.1%

8.6%

40.6%

441

3,261

23.2%

3.9%

6.1%

7.3%

17.0%

42.4%

Australia

Europe

Rest of Europe
Total Business Lending

Non
Guaran- CRR/CRD
tees IV eligible No Cover

of which Non-performing

8,531

4,132

2,947

2,877

Cover values including guarantees received - Business lending portfolio – 2016
Cover type
Eligible
Financial
Other
MortColla- CRR/CRD
gages
teral IV eligible

Value to Loan

Region

Outstandings

Africa

2,533

14

158

922

2,142

645

America

40,096

5,484

4,416

21,080

10,090

Asia

39,455

1,087

1,395

12,182

5,394

3,603

11

44,815

30,807

1,655

Australia
Belgium
Europe

Germany

Total Business Lending

>0% 25%

>25%50%

>50% 75%

>75% <100%

≥ 100%

17.5%

10.7%

5.2%

10.8%

22.6%

33.2%

21,611

35.8%

4.8%

4.8%

6.7%

12.6%

35.3%

17,381

9,643

37.2%

7.2%

10.1%

7.9%

9.9%

27.7%

947

885

769

24.3%

9.4%

5.6%

1.0%

8.2%

51.5%

6,287

18,249

27,038

28.7%

2.2%

2.9%

4.2%

7.2%

54.8%

8,777

1,587

300

688

1,402

3,191

51.8%

2.7%

2.5%

5.2%

1.1%

36.7%

63,597

47,941

3,007

23,451

7,990

14,849

26.5%

2.2%

4.5%

11.7%

18.0%

37.1%

105,728

38,055

6,062

23,647

40,420

54,926

37.2%

4.3%

7.2%

6.6%

8.0%

36.7%

310,395 128,578

17,004

89,204

98,559 132,672

33.6%

4.1%

5.9%

7.4%

10.7%

38.3%

293

3,210

24.1%

4.4%

6.4%

14.2%

13.8%

37.1%

Netherlands
Rest of Europe

Non
Guaran- CRR/CRD
tees IV eligible No Cover

of which Non-performing

9,438

4,352

3,961

3,705

The two tables above provide the collateralisation of ING Bank’s business lending portfolio with a breakdown per geographical region
or main market, which are defined based on the residence of the borrowers. The total increase in the business lending portfolio is in
line with the increase in covers. Largest increases in outstandings were seen in Germany, Belgium Rest of Europe (mainly Poland and
France) and Asia.
The increase in Germany was due to a large increase in central bank deposits. As these deposits are not collateralised this increase
had no influence on the total cover amounts. The Rest of Europe increase was mainly observed in Poland C&FI Lending, while the
largest increases in France were observed in C&FI Lending and Real Estate. The increase in Asia was driven by trade related
transactions in Wholesale Banking Transaction Services despite the decreasing impact from FX changes. The depreciation of the US
Dollar impacted the Asian and American Structured Finance portfolios which are primarily denominated in US Dollars.

Pre-settlement portfolio

ING uses various market pricing and measurement techniques to determine the amount of credit risk on pre-settlement activities.
These techniques estimate ING’s potential future exposure on individual and portfolios of trades. Master agreements and collateral
agreements are frequently entered into to reduce these credit risks.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

258

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

ING matches trades with similar characteristics to determine their eligibility for offsetting. This offsetting effect is called
‘compensation’. Therefore, ING reduces the amount by any legal netting that may be permitted under various types of Master
Agreements, such as ISDA Master Agreements, Global Master Repurchase Agreements (GMRA), Global Master Securities Lending
Agreements (GMSLA), etc. Lastly, the amount is further reduced by any collateral that is held by ING under Credit Support Annexes
(CSAs) or other similar agreements.
The use of Central Clearing Parties (CCPs) is becoming more important for the derivatives business and as a consequence the credit risk
is shifting from Counterparties to CCPs. In 2017, the notional Pre-Settlement exposure that was cleared via CCPs formed 56.8% of the
total notional (55.5% in 2016).
As part of its securities financing business, ING entities actively enter into agreements to sell and buy back marketable securities.
These transactions can take many legal forms. Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, buy/sell-back and sell/buyback
agreements, and securities borrowing and lending agreements are the most common. As a general rule, the marketable securities
that have been received under these transactions are eligible to be resold or re-pledged in other (similar) transactions. ING is obliged to
return equivalent securities in such cases.
The table below represents the different types of exposures in 2017 and 2016.
•
•
•
•

The ‘Gross MtM before netting and collateral’ is the exposure calculated in accordance with the Current Exposure Method (CEM,
which in the EU regulation is referred to as the Mark-to-Market method) without accounting for any netting or collateral benefit;
The ‘MtM after netting’ is the exposure, according to the CEM, taking into account the benefit of legally enforceable netting
agreements (e.g. ISDAs), but without considering the benefit of margin collateral (e.g. CSAs);
The ‘MtM after netting and collateral’ is the exposure according to the CEM, taking into account both the benefit of netting and
marginal collateral. In other words, the gap between the ‘MtM after netting’ and ‘MtM after netting and collateral’ is the liquid
collateral (cash and securities); and
The outstandings column represents CEM exposure (MtM after netting plus the Potential Future Exposure - PFE) at a 97.5%
confidence level for derivatives and securities.
Pre-settlement portfolio
2017

Gross MtM
before
netting and
collateral

Region
Africa
America
Asia
Australia
Europe

Belgium
Germany
Netherlands
Rest of Europe

Total Pre-settlement
of which Non-performing

2016

MtM after
MtM after netting and
netting
collateral

Gross MtM
before
Out- netting and
standings
collateral

MtM after
MtM after netting and
netting
collateral

Outstandings

107

96

85

119

84

49

47

89

21,296

10,864

6,846

7,690

20,866

10,891

6,549

9,241

7,150

3,663

3,020

3,542

8,318

4,743

3,558

3,918

483

264

241

532

537

303

228

492

5,165

3,761

2,880

2,215

5,463

3,368

2,871

2,455

4,481

2,091

1,397

2,264

5,300

2,757

1,842

3,479

6,701

4,174

2,771

4,062

9,146

5,859

3,741

4,848

104,788

22,404

17,637

24,260

124,173

31,656

26,648

25,481

150,171

47,316

34,877

44,685

173,887

59,626

45,484

50,003

23

25

25

29

37

36

36

36

During 2017 the pre-settlement portfolio decreased when expressed in terms of outstandings. The pre-settlement portfolio was
mainly concentrated in rest of Europe to a central counterparty clearinghouse and commercial banks in the UK, mostly consisting of
interest rate derivatives. The decrease in gross MtM before netting and collateral was also observed in this derivatives portfolio.

Credit quality

Following, the somewhat higher credit risk levels seen as a result of the financial crisis and economic downturn, credit quality has been
improving since 2014 and also continued the improving trend in 2017.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

259

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Credit risk categories
Regular

Watch List

Restructuring 1

Non-performing 1

Possible ratings

1–19

1–19

11–20

20-22

Typical ratings

1–14

15–17

18–20

20-22

Not significant

Significant

Significant

Significant

Not required

Not required

Required

Required

No

No

Yes

Yes

Front Office

Front Office

Front Office

Front Office

Deterioration in risk
Significant intervention
Includes impairments
Account Ownership
Credit Risk Management
Primary Manager
Accounting provisioning

Regular

Regular

Credit Restructuring

Credit Restructuring

Front Office

Front Office

Credit Restructuring

Credit Restructuring

IBNR

IBNR

IBNR/INSFA/ISFA

INSFA/ISFA

1 More information on the Restructuring and Non-performing categories can be found in the Credit restructuring section.

Credit quality: ING Bank portfolio, outstandings
Neither past due nor non-performing
Consumer lending past due but performing (1–90 days)

2016

757,498

4,352

3,970

12,481

13,597

773,636

775,065

Non-performing1
Total

2017

756,803

1 Based on lending and investment activities

The credit quality of the ING portfolio improved with non-performing outstandings which continued to decrease. The decrease was
mainly observed in Retail Netherlands and the Real Estate Finance portfolio. The reduction in the non-performing portfolio was due to
write-offs combined with positive rating migration to the performing portfolio. The increase in the past due but performing portfolio
mainly resulted from a change in the days count methodology related to IFRS 9.

Past due obligations

Retail Banking continuously measures its portfolio in terms of payment arrears and on a monthly basis it is determined if there are
any significant changes in the level of arrears. This methodology is principally extended to loans to private individuals, such as
residential mortgage loans, car loans, and other consumer loans. An obligation is considered ‘past due’ if a payment of interest or
principal is more than one day late. ING aims to help its customers as soon as they are past due by communicating (e-mail, SMS, letter
or outbound call) to remind them on their payment obligations. In its contacts with the customers, ING aims to solve the (potential)
financial difficulties by offering a range of measures (e.g. payment arrangements, restructuring). If the issues cannot be cured, for
example because the customer is not able or not willing to pay, the contract is sent to the recovery unit. The facility is downgraded to
risk rating 20 (non-performing) when arrears exceed 90 days past due and to risk rating 21 or 22 (no more cure) when the contract is
terminated. The table below captures all past due exposures starting from day 1.
Aging analysis (past due but performing): ING Bank consumer lending portfolio, outstandings1
2017

2016

3,464

3,368

Past due for 31–60 days

724

532

Past due for 61–90 days

163

70

4,352

3,970

Past due for 1–30 days

Total
1 Based on consumer lending. The amount of past due but performing financial assets in respect of non-lending activities was not significant.

Total past due exposure for consumer loans increased by EUR 0.4 billion. The deterioration in past due obligations was a result of the
change in the days count methodology related to IFRS 9 and was mainly seen in the 31-60 days bucket and the 61-90 days. The
increase in the 1-30 days bucket was driven by increased residential mortgage exposure in Netherlands Retail and Poland Retail, the
increase was offset by a decrease in past due exposure in Australia.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

260

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Aging analysis (past due but performing): ING Bank consumer lending portfolio by geographic area, outstandings1
Residential
Mortgages

Region

2016

Total

Total

Africa

1

1

1

America

3

3

2

Asia

1

1

2

251

251

540

Australia
Belgium
Europe

Germany
Netherlands
Rest of Europe

Total

Other retail

2017

1,123

547

1,671

1,444

407

89

497

251

1,028

35

1,062

947

411

455

866

783

3,225

1,127

4,352

3,970

1 Based on consumer lending. The amount of past due but performing financial assets in respect of non-lending activities was not significant.

Wholesale Banking: for business loans (governments, institutions, and corporates), ING classifies the relevant obligors as nonperforming when any of the following default triggers occurs:
• The borrower has failed in the payment of principal or interest/fees and such payment failure has remained unresolved for the
following period:
• Corporates: more than 90 days; and
• Financial Institutions and Governments: from day 1, however, a research period of 14 calendar days will be observed in order
for ING to establish whether the payment default was due to non-operational reasons (i.e. the deteriorated credit quality of
the financial institution) or due to operational reasons. The latter does not trigger default.
• ING believes the borrower is unlikely to pay: the borrower has evidenced significant financial difficulty, to the extent that it will
have a negative impact on the future cash flows of the financial asset. The following events could be seen as examples of financial
difficulty indicators:
(1) The borrower (or third party) has started insolvency proceedings.
(2) NPL status of a group company/co-borrower.
(3) Significant fraud (affecting the company’s ability to service its debt)
(4) There is doubt as to the borrowers’ ability to generate stable and sufficient cash flows to service its debt.
(5) Restructuring of debt
• ING has granted concessions relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty, the effect of which is a reduction in expected future
cash flows of the financial asset below current carrying amount.
Wholesale Banking has an individual name approach, using Early Warnings indicators to signal possible future issues in debt service.

Credit restructuring

Global Credit Restructuring (GCR) is the dedicated and independent department that deals with non-performing loans and loans that
hold a reasonable probability that ING will end up with a loss, if no specific action is taken. GCR deals with accounts or portfolios
requiring an active approach, which may include renegotiation of terms & conditions and business or financial restructuring. This
concerns mainly WB clients. The loans are managed by GCR or by units in the various regions and business units.
ING uses three distinct statuses in categorizing the management of clients with (perceived) deteriorating credit risk profile, i.e. there is
doubt as to the performance and the collectability of the client’s contractual obligations:
• Watch List: Usually, a client is first classified as Watch List when there are concerns of any (potential or material) deterioration in
the credit risk profile that might affect the ability of the client to adhere to its debt service obligations or to refinance its existing
loans. Watch List status requires more than usual attention, increased monitoring and quarterly reviews. Some clients with a
Watch List status may develop into a Restructuring status or even a Recovery status.
• Restructuring: A client is classified as Restructuring when there are concerns about the client’s financial stability, credit worthiness
and/or its ability to repay, but where the situation does not call for recalling or acceleration of facilities or liquidating the collateral.
ING’s actions aim to maintain the going concern status of the client by:
• Restoring the client’s financial stability;
• Supporting the client’s turnaround;
• Restoring the balance between debt and equity; and
• Restructuring the debt to a sustainable situation.
• Recovery: A client is classified as in Recovery when ING and/or the client concludes that the client’s financial situation cannot be
restored and a decision is made to end the (credit) relationship or even to enter into bankruptcy. ING will prefer an amicable exit,
but will enforce and liquidate collateral or claim under the guarantees if deemed necessary.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

261

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Watch List, Restructuring and Recovery are discussed at least on a quarterly basis between Front Office, respective Credit Risk
Management executives and GCR, at which time it may be decided to change the status of an account from Watch List to
Restructuring or Recovery or vice versa.

Non-performing loans

ING’s loan portfolio is under constant review. Loans with past due financial obligations of more than 90 days are reclassified as nonperforming. For commercial lending portfolios, there generally are reasons for declaring a loan non-performing prior to being 90 days
past due. These reasons include, but are not limited to, ING’s assessment of the customer’s perceived inability to meet its financial
obligations, or the customer filing for bankruptcy or bankruptcy protection.
The table below represents the breakdown by industry of credit risk outstanding for lending and investment positions that have been
classified as non-performing.
Non-performing Loans: ING Bank portfolio, outstandings by economic sector
Industry

2017

2016

Private Individuals

4,094

4,382

Natural Resources

1,742

1,387

Real Estate

1,523

1,808

Transportation & Logistics

983

1,056

Builders & Contractors

863

955

General Industries

612

710

Services

578

689

Food, Beverages & Personal Care

570

705

1,516

1,905

12,481

13,597

Other¹
Total
1 Economic sectors not specified in above overview are grouped in Other.

The overall amount of NPLs decreased in 2017, mainly witnessed in the Private Individuals and Real Estate sectors. The decrease in
NPLs for Private Individuals was mainly due to the improved credit quality in the Retail Benelux portfolio as a result of the improved
economic conditions in the Netherlands and Belgium. The decline in NPLs in the Real Estate sector was observed in Real Estate Finance
Netherlands and was driven by both cures and write-offs. Other significant decreases were witnessed in Food, Beverages & Personal
Care, General Industries, Services and Builders & Contractors. The overall decrease in NPLs was offset by an increase in NPLs in the
Natural Resources portfolio, observed in Wholesale Banking Structured Finance Netherlands and Belgium, and was driven by a few
clients becoming non-performing during 2017. The decreased NPLs in “Other” were driven by the industries Telecom, Retail,
Automotive and Media.

Provisioning

Loan Loss Provisions (LLP) are calculated and accounted for in accordance with IFRS. LLP are reported for financial assets that are
measured against amortised costs (loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments). There are three types of LLP:
• Individually Significant Financial Asset (ISFA) provisions: when there is objective evidence that a financial asset is defaulted as
result of one or more prescribed default trigger events. In such cases, ING assigns a risk rating 20, 21 or 22. Specific provisions are
calculated if the exposure to a borrower exceeds the threshold amount. The threshold amount varies per business unit, but
generally is EUR 1 million. Provisions are calculated based on discounted future cash flows under 1 or more likely scenarios to
arrive at a best estimate of future recoveries. Provisions are made on a quarterly basis.
• Individually Not Significant Financial Asset (INSFA) provisions: are made for non-performing loans (ratings 20-22), if the exposure to
a borrower is below the threshold amount. A collective model based approach is taken to determine these provisions; and
• Incurred But Not Recognised (IBNR) provisions: are made for the ‘performing’ loan portfolio as an estimate or proxy for the
losses/defaults that may have already occurred in the portfolio. The PD time horizon used in the calculation of IBNR provisions
refers to the period during which an asset is impaired (in default), but not yet recognised as such - due to lack of objective
evidence – and the moment that objective evidence of impairment occurs and becomes available to ING (‘loss emergence period’).
ISFA, INSFA and IBNR provisions are reported and calculated by using common standards across ING. In case there is objective
evidence that one of the default triggers is applicable, ISFA or INSFA provisions are calculated. An analysis takes place on a quarterly
basis in order to determine the appropriate level of LLP and Risk Costs. The ING Provisioning Committee (IPC) discusses and approves
the LLP for ING, on the basis of proposals originating from ING’s business units.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

262

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

At the end of 2017, ING Bank held specific (ISFA) and collective provisions (INSFA) of EUR 2,511 million and EUR 1,391 million,
respectively (2016: EUR 3,044 million and EUR 1,443 million, respectively), representing the difference between the amortised cost of
the portfolio and the estimated recoverable amount discounted at the effective rate of interest. In addition, there was EUR 726 million
(2016: EUR 821 million) in provisions (IBNR) against the performing portfolio.
Provisions: ING Bank portfolio1,2
Wholesale Banking

Opening Balance
Amounts written off
Recoveries of amounts written off
Net addition to loan loss provisions
Exchange rate or other movements
Closing Balance

Retail Benelux

Retail Challengers &
Growth Markets

Total ING Bank

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

2017

2016

2,147

2,371

1,884

2,199

1,277

1,216

5,308

5,786

-566

-625

-519

-681

-194

-188

-1,279

-1,494

3

49

53

38

3

7

59

94

284

367

117

347

274

260

676

974

-92

-15

-2

-19

-42

-18

-136

-52

1,776

2,147

1,533

1,884

1,318

1,277

4,628

5,308

1 At the end of 2017, the stock of provisions included provisions for amounts due from banks: EUR 8 million (2016: EUR 11 million).
2 Includes EUR 104 million provisions for contingent liabilities (2016: EUR 119 million).

The favourable trend in risk costs continued during the year 2017. ING Bank recorded EUR 676 million of risk costs in 2017, down from
EUR 974 million in 2016. Risk costs improved to 22 basis points of the average RWA (2016: 31 basis points). The total stock of provisions
decreased by EUR 0.7 billion to EUR 4.6 billion as net additions were more than offset by amounts written off. The provisions coverage
ratio decreased to 37.1% (2016: 39.0%) driven by a stronger decrease in provisions than a decline in non-performing loan
outstandings.
The Retail Benelux and Wholesale Banking portfolios continued to improve and were the contributors to the decline in the stock of
provisions. Retail risk costs were substantially lower in Retail Netherlands due to improved macro-economic and Dutch housing market
conditions. In Wholesale Banking, risks costs were lower as a result of significant releases combined with limited increases. The lower
stock of provisions was mainly observed in Real Estate Finance and the Netherlands Wholesale Banking portfolio, which was partly
offset by increased provisions in the Belux Wholesale Banking loan book. The Retail Challengers & Growth Markets increase in stock of
provisions was mainly observed in Poland and Spain, which was partly offset by a decrease in Germany.
Challenges continued in the shipping industries and oil & gas while on the other hand, improved risk profiles were witnessed in other
portfolios of the bank such as the residential mortgages portfolio.
Large parts of the investment portfolio are not accounted for at amortised costs and therefore out of scope for LLP. Instead, these
assets are evaluated for impairment. The ING Bank Impairment Meeting is held quarterly and reviews all assets that are subject to an
IFRS-EU impairment test.
As of 1 January 2018, the IFRS 9 accounting rules on loan loss provisioning will be implemented. These accounting rules will not
change the actual credit losses, but will have an impact on the timing of the reflection of these losses in the P&L. Where in current
accounting practice loan loss provisions are booked from the moment losses are incurred, under IFRS 9 loan loss provisions are booked
given expected losses. More specifically, loan loss provisioning becomes more forward-looking under IFRS 9 partly due to the fact that
provisions will be based on the macroeconomic outlook. Furthermore, loan loss provisioning will be calculated on lifetime expected
losses for assets that have been significantly deteriorated in credit quality. As a result of these elements, loan loss provisioning in the
P&L could become more volatile.

Forbearance

Forbearance occurs when a client is considered to be unable to meet its financial commitments under the contract due to financial
difficulties and ING decides to grant concessions towards the client. Forborne exposures are exposures in respect of which forbearance
measures have been granted. Forbearance measures can be either modifications to existing contractual terms and conditions or total
or partial refinancing. Within ING, forbearance is based on the European Implementing Technical Standards.
To identify forbearance, ING assesses clients with Early Warning Signals, Watch List, Restructuring, Default or Recovery status. ING
reviews the performance of forborne exposures at least quarterly, either on a case-by-case (business) or on a portfolio (retail) basis.
For corporate customers, ING applies forbearance measures to support clients with fundamentally sound business models that are
experiencing temporary difficulties. The aim is to maximise the repayment ability of the clients.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

263

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

For ING retail units, clear criteria have been established to determine whether a client is eligible for forbearance – generally as part of
an automated process. Specific approval mandates are in place to approve the measures, as well as procedures to manage, monitor
and report the forbearance activities.
Exposures with forbearance measures can be either performing (Risk Ratings 1-19) or non-performing (Risk Ratings 20-22). ING applies
criteria to move forborne exposures from non-performing to performing as well as criteria to remove the forbearance status that are
consistent with the corresponding EBA standards. An exposure is reported as forborne for a minimum of two years, plus a probation
period of one year is observed for forborne exposures to move from non-performing back to performing.
ING Bank: Summary Forborne assets1
2017

Forborne
assets

Business Line

2016

Of which:
Of which:
Perfor- Non-Performing
ming

% of total
portfolio

Forborne
assets

Of which:
Of which:
Perfor- Non-Performing
ming

% of
total
portfolio

Wholesale Banking

6,162

2,776

3,386

2.1%

7,776

3,978

3,799

Retail Banking

5,657

3,074

2,583

1.3%

7,104

3,944

3,159

1.7%

11,819

5,849

5,969

1.6%

14,880

7,922

6,958

2.1%

Total

2.7%

1 Undrawn commitments are excluded.

ING implemented its forbearance policy in 2014. In 2016 based on a detailed re-assessment of the relevant standards set by EBA and
subsequent regulatory guidance, ING tightened the definitions under its forbearance policy. As a result of these revisions in definition
and scope, performing forborne exposure recognized by ING increased significantly in 2016 as measures taken in previous periods
were then recognized as forbearance. Examples of measures taken were commercially justifiable measures, modifications of
covenants as well as waivers of covenant breaches.
Due to further refinement of aforementioned policy, recognition of forborne assets has been changed from client level to facility level
as a result of which forborne assets have substantially reduced.
ING’s forborne assets decreased by EUR 3.1 billion (21%) to EUR 11.8 billion per 2017, of which Wholesale Banking decreased by EUR
1.6 billion and Retail Banking decreased by EUR 1.4 billion.

Wholesale Banking

As per end of December 2017, Wholesale Banking forborne assets amounted to a total of EUR 6.2 billion, which represented 2.1% of
the total Wholesale Banking portfolio.
Wholesale Banking: Forborne assets by geographical area1
2017

Forborne
assets

Region
Netherlands
Europe

Belgium
Germany
Rest of Europe

Africa
America
Asia
Australia
Total

2016

Of which:
Of which:
Perfor- Non-Performing
ming

Forborne
assets

Of which:
Of which:
Perfor- Non-Performing
ming

1,593

816

777

2,200

1,100

1,100

223

105

118

245

103

142

45

23

22

41

13

28

2,456

867

1,589

3,016

1,496

1,521

156

84

72

197

112

85

1,212

584

628

1,387

709

678

428

291

137

663

445

218

49

7

42

27

6,162

2,776

3,386

7,776

3,978

3,799

27

1 Undrawn commitments are excluded.

The main concentration of forborne assets in a single country was in the Netherlands with 26% (2016: 28%) of the total Wholesale
Banking forborne assets. Wholesale Banking forborne assets decreased by EUR 1.6 billion compared to 2016, of which performing EUR
1.2 billion and non-performing EUR 0.4 billion. Underlying, main changes were in the Netherlands and Asia where forborne assets
decreased by EUR 0.6 billion and EUR 0.2 billion respectively. The decrease in the Netherlands was mainly driven by repayments and
write offs, the decrease in Asia was mainly visible in Transportation & Logistics (EUR 0.1 billion) and Natural Resources (EUR 0.1 billion),
driven by the respective Shipping and Oil & Gas portfolio’s.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

264

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Wholesale Banking: Forborne assets by economic sector1
2017

Forborne
assets

Industry

2016

Of which:
Of which:
Perfor- Non-Performing
ming

Forborne
assets

Of which:
Of which:
Perfor- Non-Performing
ming

Natural Resources

1,995

743

1,251

2,385

1,232

1,152

Real Estate

1,467

824

643

1,775

1,015

759

Transportation & Logistics

988

398

590

1,319

685

634

Builders & Contractors

435

174

261

429

269

160

General Industries

329

140

189

411

112

299

Services

289

137

151

414

198

216

Food, Beverages & Personal Care

199

139

60

207

141

66

Utilities

177

9

168

259

58

201

Retail

82

56

26

49

18

31

Chemicals, Health & Pharmaceuticals

56

52

4

76

65

11

Non-Bank Financial Institutions

51

49

3

12

7

5

Telecom

39

14

25

152

39

114

Other

55

40

15

290

139

150

Total

6,162

2,776

3,386

7,776

3,978

3,799

1 Undrawn commitments are excluded.

Wholesale Banking forborne assets were mainly concentrated in Natural Resources, Real Estate and Transportation & Logistics.
Together they accounted for 72% (2016: 70%) of the total Wholesale Banking forborne assets and 73% (2016: 67%) of the total
Wholesale Banking non-performing forborne assets. Decreases in forborne assets were mainly in the Natural Resources (EUR 0.4
billion), Real Estate (EUR 0.3 billion) and Transportation & Logistics (EUR 0.3 billion) industries.

Retail Banking

As per end of December 2017, Retail Banking forborne assets amounted to a total of EUR 5.7 billion, which represented 1.3% of the
total Retail Banking portfolio.
Retail Banking: Forborne assets by geographical area1
2017

Forborne
assets

Region
Europe

2016

Of which:
Of which:
Perfor- Non-Performing
ming

Forborne
assets

Of which:
Of which:
Perfor- Non-Performing
ming

Netherlands

3,036

1,727

1,309

4,301

2,395

1,906

Belgium

1,096

399

697

1,139

418

721

Germany

541

432

109

644

511

132

Rest of Europe

639

342

297

651

335

317

Africa

1

1

1

1

America

1

1

3

2

Asia

2

2

342

172

170

364

285

79

5,657

3,074

2,583

7,104

3,944

3,159

Australia
Total

1

1

1 Undrawn commitments are excluded.

The main concentration of forborne assets in a single country was in the Netherlands with 54% of the total Retail Banking forborne
assets (2016: 61%) and 51% of the non-performing forborne assets (2016: 60%). Retail banking forborne assets decreased by EUR 1.4
billion compared to 2016, and was mainly visible in consumer lending and mortgages. Specifically forborne assets decreased by EUR
0.6 billion in the Dutch Residential mortgage portfolio. Due to a continued improved economic environment, visible by the increasing
house prices and improved credit worthiness of our clients.

Securitisations

ING primarily plays three roles in its exposure to securitisations programs which are:

ING Group Annual Report 2017

265

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

ING as Investor

ING’s goal is to maintain a portfolio of high quality liquid assets that meets the regulatory requirements of CRR/CRD IV and the
Delegated Act of October 2014 regarding liquidity. ING invests in high quality Asset Backed Securities (ABS) keeping close track of the
securitisation investment positions via monthly monitoring reports and weekly update calls. Additionally, ING may invest in
securitisation positions in order to facilitate client business from its Disintermediation & Asset Securitisation unit.

ING as Originator

ING occasionally originates its own securitisation transactions for economic and regulatory capital purposes, as well as liquidity and
funding purposes. Securitisations originated by a company may only be considered for balance sheet de-recognition when the
requirements for significant credit risk transfer have been fulfilled. ING has executed a very limited number of external transactions as
originator.

ING as Sponsor

In the normal course of business, ING structures financing transactions for its clients by assisting them in obtaining sources of liquidity
by selling the clients’ receivables or other financial assets to a special purpose vehicle (SPV). Senior positions in these transactions are
often funded by the ING administered multi-seller asset backed commercial paper (ABCP) conduit Mont Blanc Capital Corp. (rated A1/P-1). Mont Blanc Capital Corp. funds itself externally in the ABCP markets. In its role as administrative agent, ING facilitates these
transactions by providing structuring, accounting, funding and operations services. ING also provides support facilities (liquidity
facilities) backing the transactions funded by the conduit. Mont Blanc is fully consolidated into the ING annual accounts.

Market risk
Introduction

Market risk is the risk that movements in market variables, such as interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads
and real estate prices negatively impact the bank’s earnings, capital, market value or liquidity position. Market risk either arises
through positions in banking books or trading books. The banking book positions are intended to be held for the long-term (or until
maturity) or for the purpose of hedging other banking book positions. The trading book positions are typically held with a short-term
trading intent or in order to hedge other positions in the trading book. This means that financial instruments in the trading books
should be free of restrictions on their tradability. Policies and processes are in place to monitor inclusion of positions into either a
trading or a banking book and transfer of risk from trading to banking book and vice versa.
ING recognises the importance of sound market risk management and bases its market risk management framework on the approach
to identify, assess, control and manage market risks. The approach consists of a cycle of five recurring activities: risk identification, risk
assessment, risk control, risk monitoring and risk reporting.
•
•
•
•
•

Risk identification is a joint effort of the first and second line of defence (the ‘three lines of defence governance’ model is explained
in the risk governance paragraph of the general risk management section). Its goal is to detect potential new risks and changes in
known risks;
Identified risks are assessed and measured by means of various risk metrics to determine the importance of the risk to ING and
subsequently to identify the control measures needed;
Control measures used by ING include policies, procedures, minimum standards, limit frameworks, buffers and stress tests;
An important element of risk management is to continuously monitor whether the implemented risk controls are executed and
complied with and check that the controls are effective; and
Market risk management results and findings are reported to the governing departments and approval bodies.

Governance

A governance framework has been established defining specific roles and responsibilities of business management units, market risk
management units and internal approval bodies per activity.
Supervision of market risk falls under responsibility of the Management Board Banking (MBB) and is delegated to the ALCO function,
where ALCO Bank is the highest approval authority and sets the market risk appetite. ALCO Bank monitors adherence to the risk
appetite for market risk and sets additional limits where appropriate. These limits are cascaded through the organisation through
lower level ALCO’s. This ALCO structure facilitates top-down risk management, limit setting and the monitoring and control of market
risk.
Monitoring and control of market risk are within the responsibilities of FR and Financial Institutions – Financial Markets (FI-FM) Risk. FR
and FI-FM Risk are the designated departments of the second line of defence, independent from the first line of defence (front office)
that report to the CRO function and that are responsible for the design and execution of the bank’s market risk and counterparty credit
risk management functions in support of the ALCO function. FR focuses on the market risks in the banking books, the Capital
Management department and the Bank Treasury department, whereas FI-FM is responsible for counterparty credit risk and market
risks resulting from the Financial Markets trading books. FR and FI-FM Risk are responsible for determining adequate policies and
procedures for actively managing market risk in banking and trading books and for monitoring the compliance with these guidelines.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

266

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Besides monitoring and control of market risk, FR and FI-FM maintain a limit framework in line with ING’s Risk Appetite Framework. The
businesses are responsible for adhering to limits that are ultimately approved by ALCO Bank. Limit excesses are reported to senior
management on a timely basis and the business is required to take appropriate actions to reduce the risk position. To adhere to the
established limit framework, ING implements hedging and risk mitigation strategies that range from the use of traditional market
instruments, such as interest rate swaps, to more sophisticated hedging strategies to address a combination of risk factors arising at
the portfolio level.
The organisational structure facilitates top-down risk management by recognising that risk taking and risk management to a large
extent occur at the regional/local level. Bottom-up reporting from regional/local units to head office units allows each management
level to fully assess the market risk relevant at the respective levels.
Several committees govern the communication between the parties involved in market risk management. Market Risk Model
Committee (MRMC) is the highest dedicated authority within ING for the approval of all trading and banking risk models,
methodologies and parameters related to market risk. Trading Pricing Model Committee (TPMC) approves pricing models for trading
and banking books. The GCTP is the highest dedicated authority with representatives from Financial Risk, CRO Challengers & Growth
Markets and CRO Wholesale Banking for the approval of policies, models, methodologies and parameters related to credit risk and
trading risk and for consideration of risk appetite and risk governance. Systematic risk reporting takes place by departments of
Financial Risk and FI-FM Risk to the EB and MBB, senior executive management of CRO function and senior executive management of
related business functions.
FI-FM Risk Management Framework governs the boundary between trading books and banking books. It defines the activities ING
considers to be trading according to a regulatory definition and as constituting part of the trading book for own funds requirement
purposes. Trading activity is systematically reviewed and positions against the mandates are assessed jointly by first and second lines
of defence. As specified in the framework, transfer of risk or positions between banking and trading books is not allowed.
This market risk paragraph elaborates on the various elements of the risk management framework for:
• Market risk economic capital for trading and banking books;
• Market risks in the banking books; and
• Market risks in the trading books.

Economic capital for market risk

Economic capital for market risk is the economic capital necessary to withstand unexpected value movements due to changes in
market variables and model risk.
Economic Capital for market risk is calculated for exposures both in trading portfolios and banking portfolios and includes interest rate
risk, credit spread risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange rate risk, real estate risk, model risks and pension risk. Economic capital for
market risk is calculated using internally developed methodologies with a 99.95% confidence interval and a horizon of one year.
For the trading books, the linear interest rate risk in the banking books and equity investments, the Value at Risk (VaR) is taken as a
starting point for the economic capital calculations for market risk. The VaR is measured at a 99% confidence interval, a one day
holding period and under the assumption of an expected value of zero.
To arrive at the economic capital for market risk, a simulation based model is used which includes scaling to the required confidence
interval and holding period. In determining this scaling factor, several other factors are also taken into account like the occurrence of
large market movements (events) and management interventions.
Embedded options, e.g. the prepayment option and offered rate option in mortgages in the banking books, result in non-linear interest
rate risk in the banking books. The embedded options are economically hedged using a delta-hedging methodology, leaving the
mortgage portfolio exposed to convexity and volatility risk. For the calculation of economic capital for this non-linear interest rate risk
ING performs a Monte Carlo simulation.
Real estate price risk includes the market risks in both the real estate investment and the development portfolio of ING Wholesale
Banking. The economic capital for real estate price risk is calculated by stressing the underlying market variables.
While aggregating the different economic capital market risk figures for the different portfolios, diversification benefits (based on
stressed correlations) are taken into account as it is not expected that all extreme market movements will appear at the same
moment.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

267

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Market risk in banking books

ING makes a distinction between trading and banking (non-trading) books. Positions in banking books originate from the market risks
inherent in commercial products that are sold to clients, the Bank Treasury exposures and from the investment of own funds (core
capital). Both the commercial products, and the products used to hedge market risk exposures in these products are intended to be
held until maturity, or at least for the long-term.

Risk transfer

An important element of the management of market risks in the banking books is the process of risk transfer. In this process the
interest rate, FX, funding and liquidity risks are transferred from the commercial books through matched funding to Bank Treasury,
where it is centrally managed. The scheme below presents the transfer and management process of market risks in the banking
books:
ING
Bank Treasury

Capital Management

FX, Interest and Liquidity Risk

Equity and Structural FX Risks

Retail Banking Benelux

Retail Challengers and Growth Markets

Wholesale Banking

Model Risk (replication, prepayments)

Model Risk (replication, prepayments)

Model Risk (replication, prepayments)

Risk transfer to Bank Treasury

Risk transfer to Bank Treasury

Risk transfer to Bank Treasury

Real Estate Price Risk

In November 2017, it was approved to merge Bank Treasury and Capital Management into a new department named Group Treasury.
This merge is expected to be completed by June 2018.

Risk measurement

The main concepts and metrics used for measuring market risk in the banking books are described below per risk type.

Interest rate risk in banking book

Interest rate risk in the banking books is defined as the exposure of a bank’s earnings, capital and market value to adverse movements
in interest rates originated from positions in the banking books.

Governance

The management of interest rate risk follows the interest rate risk in the banking book framework as approved by ALCO Bank. This
framework describes roles and responsibilities, risk metrics, and it defines the policies and procedures related to interest rate risk
management. Furthermore, on an overall level, ALCO Bank sets the risk appetite for interest rate risk, which is translated into limits for
interest rate risk metrics.
ING’s approach to interest rate risk management, as set forth in this framework, is centralisation of risks from commercial books (that
capture the products sold to clients) to central interest rate risk books. This enables a clear demarcation between commercial business
results and results on unhedged interest rate positions.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

268

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

ING distinguishes three types of activities that generate interest rate risk in the banking books:
• Investment of own funds (by Capital Management)
• Commercial business (e.g. Retail business)
• The strategic interest rate position (Bank Treasury)
Below the three activities are described in more detail:
Capital Management is responsible for managing the investment of own funds (core capital), more information can be found in the
Capital Management section. Capital is invested for longer periods, targeting to maximise return, while keeping earnings stable.
The commercial activities can result in linear interest rate risk, for example when re-pricing tenors of assets differ from those of
liabilities. Also interest rate risk can arise from customer behaviour depending on the nature of the underlying product characteristics.
Customer behaviour risk is defined as the potential future value loss due to deviations in the actual behaviour of clients versus the
modelled behaviour towards the embedded options in commercial products. General sources of customer behaviour risk include the
state of the economy, competition, changes in regulation, legislation and tax regime, and developments in the housing market. Since
these risk factors cannot be (fully) mitigated, ING holds capital to be able to absorb possible losses as a result of changed customer
behaviour.
From an interest rate risk perspective the commercial activities can typically be divided into three main product types: savings and
demand deposits, mortgages and loans.
- Savings and demand deposits are generally invested with the goal to hedge their value and minimize the sensitivity of the margin to
market interest rates. Interest rate risk can arise when there is a lag between savings rate adjustments versus adjustments
experienced through market rates or when market rate changes cannot be passed on to clients. The interest rate risk is modelled
based on the stability of the deposit and the pass through rate. This takes into account different elements, such as pricing strategies,
volume developments and the level and shape of the yield curve. Savings volumes are typically assumed not to be sensitive to
interest rate shocks;
- Interests rate risk for mortgages arises through prepayment behaviour. In modelling this risk, interest rate dependent pre-payments
are considered. Next to dependence on interest rates, modelled prepayment may include other effects such as loan to value,
seasonality and age of the loan. In addition, the interest sensitivity of embedded offered rate options is considered; and
- Wholesale Banking loanstypically do not experience interest rate prepayment behavior they are hedged from an interest rate risk
perspective and therefore not contain significant convexity risk.
Customer behaviour in relation to mortgages, loans, savings and demand deposits is modelled, based on extensive research. Per
business unit and product type, exposures are typically segmented into different portfolios based on expected client behaviour. For
each of the segments, model parameters for example for the pass through rate and customer behaviour are determined based on
historical data and expert opinion. Models are typically back tested at least semi-annually and updated when deemed necessary.
Model parameters and the resulting risk measures are approved by (local) ALCO.
Linear interest rate risk is transferred from the commercial business to the treasury books (Bank Treasury), if necessary using
estimations of customer behaviour. The originating commercial business is ultimately responsible for estimating customer behaviour,
leaving convexity risk and (unexpected) customer behaviour risk with the commercial business. Risk measurement and the risk
transfer process take place on a monthly basis, but more often if deemed necessary, for instance in volatile markets.
The commercial business manages the convexity risk that is the result of products that contain embedded options, like mortgages.
Here the convexity risk is defined as the optionality effects in the value due to interest rate changes, excluding the first-order effects.
In some cases, convexity risk is transferred from the commercial books to treasury books using cap/floor contracts.
Bank Treasury manages the strategic interest rate position excluding capital investments. The main objective is to maximise the
economic value of the book and to generate adequate and stable annual earnings within the risk appetite boundaries set by ALCO
Bank.
In the following sections, the interest rate risk exposures in the banking books are presented. ING uses risk measures based on both an
earnings and a value perspective. Net Interest Income (NII)-at-Risk is used to provide the earnings perspective and the Net Present
Value (NPV)-at-Risk and Basis Point Value (BPV) figures provide the value perspective. Please note that corrective management actions
are not taken into account in these figures although price adjustments are included in the earnings risk measure.

Developments relating to IRRBB

During 2017 ING implemented a number of refinements to the risk measurement for IRRBB following the review and update of the
interest rate risk policy and minimum standards. The following refinements were implemented during 2017:
- To accommodate interest rate scenarios to go negative, while in previous years the downward scenarios contained a floor of 0% on
the interest rates (in line with regulatory guidelines).

ING Group Annual Report 2017

269

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

- Implementation of currency specific scenarios calculated from historical data aligned to the overall risk appetite framework,
whereas previously the same scenario (+/-100bps) for different currencies was applied.
- The scenarios for the earnings perspective (NII) are applied gradually over a 12 month (ramped) period whereas previously the
scenarios were applied instantaneously.
- Addition of the market spreads in the calculation of the NPV-at-Risk measure.
- Savings model updates for market developments

Net Interest Income (NII) at Risk

NII-at-Risk measures the impact of changing interest rates on (before tax) net interest income of the banking books for year one. This
excludes credit spread sensitivity and longer term earnings impact. The NII-at-Risk figures in the tables below reflect a parallel interest
rate shock with a time horizon of one year. Next to parallel scenarios also the impact of non-parallel scenarios and the impact over a
longer horizon is part of IRRBB monitoring and management. The NII-at-Risk asymmetry between the downward scenario and upward
shock scenarios is primarily caused by the convexity risk in the mortgage and savings portfolio due to the embedded options and
pricing constraints.
NII-at-Risk banking books per business - year 1

By business
Wholesale Banking

2017

2016

Ramped, unfloored
parallel ▼ parallel ▲

Instantaneous, floored
parallel ▼
+100 bps

-185

201

-15

138

17

-48

-73

-88

Retail Challengers & Growth Markets

101

-133

20

58

Corporate Line Banking

-24

13

8

116

Total

-91

33

-60

224

Retail Banking Benelux

The NII-at-Risk is mainly influenced by the sensitivity of savings to interest rate movements due to pass through rate differences
between savings rates and investment yields and is partially offset by the sensitivity of mortgages. The investment of own funds only
impacts the Earnings sensitivity marginally, as only a relatively small part has to be (re)invested within the 1-year horizon.
NII-at-Risk banking book per currency - year 1

By currency
Euro

2017

2016

Ramped, unfloored
parallel ▼ parallel ▲

Instantaneous, floored
parallel ▼
+100 bps

-83

9

-54

186

10

-20

-14

19

Other

-19

44

8

19

Total

-91

33

-60

224

US Dollar

Year-on-year variance analysis

The revised IRRBB measures explain to a large extent the change in NII-at-Risk, foremost the difference in the shock applied. Previous
year the earnings sensitivity was calculated based on an instantaneous upward and downward floored scenario of 100bps while as of
March 2017, the NII-at-Risk is calculated based on a gradual upward – and downward unfloored scenario. In 2016 the same scenario
(+/-100bps) for different currencies was applied while as of 2017 currency specific scenarios were calculated.
Further, the change in NII-at-Risk for Retail Challengers & Growth Markets is driven by the savings model updates for market
developments in Italy, Spain and ING Germany.
Wholesale Banking shows a more negative NII sensitivity in the downward scenario as a result of the removal of the floor.
The change in NII-at-Risk for the Corporate Line is due to investments in longer tenors of own funds.

Net Present Value (NPV) at Risk

NPV-at-Risk measures the impact of changing interest rates on value. The NPV-at-Risk is defined as the outcome of an instantaneous
increase and decrease in interest rates applying currency specific scenarios. The NPV-at-Risk asymmetry between the downward and
upward shock is primarily caused by convexity risk in the mortgage and savings portfolio. The NPV-at-Risk figures are also calculated
using the updated approach for interest rate movements.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

270

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

The full value impact cannot be directly linked to the balance sheet or profit and loss account, as fair value movements in banking
books are not necessarily reported through the profit and loss account or through equity. The value mutations are expected to
materialise over time in the profit and loss account, if interest rates develop according to forward rates throughout the remaining
maturity of the portfolio.
NPV-at-Risk banking books per business

By business
Wholesale Banking
Retail Banking Benelux
Retail Challengers & Growth Markets
Corporate Line Banking
Total

2017

2016

parallel ▼

unfloored
parallel ▲

parallel ▼

floored
+100 bps

309

-184

-157

-19

-492

-468

-224

-287

-368

-17

328

-435

1,476

-1,404

115

-1,186

926

-2,073

61

-1,926

2017

2016

parallel ▼

unfloored
parallel ▲

parallel ▼

floored
+100 bps

-2,390

1,052

114

248

2,839

-2,719

115

-2,153

NPV-at-Risk banking books per accounting category

By accounting category
Amortised costs
Available for Sale
Fair value through profit and loss

476

-406

-168

-21

Total

926

-2,073

61

-1,926

The NPV-at-Risk is dominated by the interest rate sensitive long-term investments of own funds, as the equity itself is not modelled
and hence is not presented as an offset for the investments of own funds. The value of these investments is impacted significantly if
interest rates move up. The asymmetry between the NPV-at-Risk for a downward scenario and an upward shock is primarily caused
by the convexity risk due to (embedded) optionality in the savings and mortgage portfolio.

Year-on-year variance analysis

NPV-at-Risk for the downward scenario changed by EUR 865 million during 2017. The main driver of the positive change is the
Corporate Line Banking due to the removal of the floor. The removal of the floor is the main contributor to the change in the
downward scenario for the other business lines next to the model updates for the savings portfolio for Retail Banking Benelux and
Retail Challengers & Growth Markets.
The NPV-at-Risk in the upward scenario changed by EUR -147 million. The change for the Corporate Line can be attributed to longer
term investments. The changes for Retail Banking Benelux and Retail Challengers & Growth Markets are due to the savings model
updates.
The change in impact per accounting category for both the downward and upward scenario is primarily a result of the update of the
IRRBB measures. In the downward scenario the change in the NPV-at-Risk is a result of the removal of the floor. The downward and
upward scenario for the Available for Sale and Fair value through profit and loss accounting category show a more symmetric impact
as a result of the removal of the floor.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

271

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Basis Point Value (BPV)

BPV measures the impact of a one basis point increase in interest rates on value. To a large extent the BPV and NPV-at-Risk reflect the
same risk - the difference being that BPV does not reflect convexity risk, given the small shift in interest rates.
BPV banking books per currency
in EUR thousand

2017

2016

-18,446

-13,043

By currency
Euro
US Dollar

-1,417

-550

Other

1,583

-1,303

Total

-18,280

-14,896

In line with NPV-at-Risk, the bank’s overall BPV position is dominated by the long-term investment of own funds, as the present value
of this position is significantly impacted if interest rates move up by one basis point.

Year-on-year variance analysis

The overall BPV decreased by EUR 3.4 million to EUR -18.3 million in 2017. This mainly results from longer term investments of own
funds in Corporate Line (BPV impact of EUR -3.9 million).

Foreign exchange (FX) risk in banking books

FX exposures in banking books result from core banking business activities (business units doing business in other currencies than their
base currency), foreign currency investments in subsidiaries (including realised net profit and loss) and strategic equity stakes in
foreign currencies. The policy regarding these exposures is briefly explained below.

Governance – Core banking business

Every business unit hedges the FX risk resulting from core banking business activities into its base currency. Consequently, assets and
liabilities are matched in terms of currency.

Governance – FX translation result

ING’s strategy is to keep the target CET1 ratio within a certain range when FX rates fluctuate, whilst limiting the volatility in the profit
and loss account. Therefore, hedges are only done to the extent that hedge accounting can be applied. Taking this into account, the
CET1 ratio hedge can be achieved by deliberately taking foreign currency positions equal to certain target positions, such that the
target CET1 capital and risk-weighted assets are equally sensitive in relative terms to changing FX rates. A selection of emerging
market currencies that meet specific requirements do not have a target position, but are allowed to remain open under the policy.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

272

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Risk profile – FX translation result

The following table presents the currency exposures in the banking books for the most important currencies for FX translation result.
Positive figures indicate long positions in the respective currency. As a result of the strategy to hedge the CET1 ratio a net foreign
currency exposure exists.
Net banking currency exposures banking books
Foreign Investments

Hedges

Net exposures

2017

2016

2017

2,487

2,852

4

667

701

Polish Zloty

2,398

1,927

Australian Dollar

3,769

3,856

Turkish Lira

1,828

Chinese Yuan

2,762

Korean Won

954

958

Indian Rupee

937

Brazilian Real

211

Russian Rouble

549

589

-154

-224

395

364

Other currency

2,828

2,863

-1,200

-1,472

1,628

1,391

19,390

19,792

-5,576

-6,396

13,815

13,396

US Dollar
Pound Sterling

Total

2016

2017

2016

3,133

280

2,491

-128

667

573

-618

-584

1,780

1,344

-2792

-3,324

977

532

2,066

-3

1,828

2,063

3,012

-161

2,762

2,851

-779

137

179

714

937

714

253

211

253

-817

In order to measure the sensitivity of the target CET1 ratio against FX rate fluctuations, the Historical Value at Risk is used based on
historical series of the last 12 months FX rates. It measures the drop in the CET1 ratio from the target based on historical FX rates.
Based on these time series and with a probability of 1%, the drop in the CET1 ratio would be 0.16%. As this methodology has been
newly developed in 2017, the comparable 2016 sensitivity is not available.

Equity price risk in banking books
Governance

ING maintains a strategic portfolio with substantial equity exposure in its banking books. Local offices are responsible for the
management of the equity investments positions. Financial Risk is responsible for monitoring the regulatory capital for Equity
Investments on a monthly basis and it acts independently from the management in monitoring these positions.

Risk Profile

Equity price risk arises from the possibility that equity security prices will fluctuate, affecting the value of equity securities and other
instruments whose value reacts similarly to a particular security, a defined basket of securities, or a securities index. ING’s equity
exposure mainly consists of the investments in associates and joint ventures of EUR 947 million (2016: EUR 1,003 million) and equity
securities held in the available-for-sale (AFS) portfolio of EUR 3,983 million (2016: EUR 4,024 million). The value of equity securities held
in the available-for-sale portfolio is directly linked to equity security prices with increases/decreases being recognised in the
revaluation reserve, except in the case of impairment. Investments in associates and joint ventures are measured in accordance with
the equity method of accounting and the balance sheet value is therefore not directly linked to equity security prices.
Equities Unrealised Gains and Losses in the AFS portfolio
Gross unrealised gains
Gross unrealised losses
Total

Year-on-year variance analysis

2017

2016

2,478

2,675

-4

-19

2,474

2,656

The revaluation reserve relating to equity securities held in the available-for-sale portfolio moved from EUR 2,656 million per year end
2016 to EUR 2,474 million per year end 2017. In 2017 the AFS portfolio slightly decreased by EUR 41 million to EUR 4.0 billion, the
decrease in the value of the investment in Bank of Beijing and some sales of equity stakes was largely compensated by the increase in
value of the stake in Kotak Mahindra Bank.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

273

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Real Estate price risk in banking books

Real Estate price risk arises from the possibility that real estate prices fluctuate. This affects both the value of real estate assets and
earnings related to real estate activities.

Governance

Real Estate is a run-off business consisting of Real Estate Development and Real Estate Investment Management activities which are
being wound down by sale of assets, strict execution of contract maturity or through portfolio sales.

Risk profile

ING has two main different categories of real estate exposure on its banking books: first, its own buildings which ING occupies, and
second, development assets, which mostly consists of former Real Estate Development and Real Estate Investment Management
activities. The total real estate exposure amounts to EUR 0.9 billion (excluding property from foreclosures and third party interest). ING
has EUR 0.1 billion recognised at fair value through profit and loss and EUR 0.8 billion is recognised at cost or revalued through equity
(with impairments going through profit and loss). A split on the real estate exposure per continent and sector based on the risk
management view is shown below.
Real Estate market risk exposure in banking books (by geographic area and sector type)
Continent
Europe
Americas
Australia
Asia
Other
Total

2017

2016

827

969

25

36

0

0

0

0

82

104

934

1,109

Sector
Residential
Office
Retail
Industrial
Other
Total

2017

2016

72

104

785

895

8

19

12

18

57

72

934

1,108

Main exposure arises from office buildings in own use located in Netherlands and Belgium (EUR 0.78 billion), as well as retail and
residential exposures in Europe (EUR 0.08 billion).

Year-on-year variance analysis

In total, real estate market risk exposure in the banking books decreased by nearly EUR 0.2 billion mainly as a result of divestments.
The remainder is due to impairments and fair value changes.

Market risk in trading books

Within the trading portfolios, positions are maintained in the professional financial markets. These positions are often a result of
transactions with clients and may serve to benefit from short-term price movements. In 2017, ING continued its strategy of
undertaking trading activities to develop its client-driven franchise and deliver a differentiating experience by offering multiple market
and trading products efficiently and effectively.

Governance

The Financial Markets Risk Committee (FMRC) is the market risk committee that, within the risk appetite set by ALCO Bank, sets market
risk limits both on an aggregated level and on a desk level, and approves new products. FI-FM Risk advises both FMRC and ALCO Bank
on the market risk appetite of trading activities.
With respect to the trading portfolios, FI-FM Risk focuses on the management of market risks of Wholesale Banking (mainly Financial
Markets) as this is the only business line within ING where trading activities take place. Trading activities include facilitation of client
business and market making. FI-FM Risk is responsible for the development and implementation of trading risk policies and risk
measurement methodologies, the reporting and monitoring of risk exposures against approved trading limits and the validation of
pricing models. FI-FM Risk also reviews trading mandates and limits, and performs the gatekeeper role in the product review process.
The management of market risk in trading portfolios is performed at various organisational levels. FI-FM Risk Management Framework
defines policies and procedures for the overall management of trading books. Trading activity is systematically reviewed and positions
against the mandates are assessed jointly by first and second lines of defence.

Fair values of financial assets and liabilities

ING aligns the pricing sources it uses with the Fair Value Hierarchy. The best evidence of Fair Value are published price quotations in
active markets. Where quoted prices are not available, other pricing sources and valuation techniques are used to determine fair
value.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

274

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Examples of other pricing sources are, independent market vendors, brokers, or recent transactions. The range of prices obtained from
these sources can diverge. The choice for one or the other pricing source can therefore result in different estimates of fair value.
Selecting the most appropriate price within this range requires expertise and judgement. The selection of the pricing sources used is
subject to internal approval and review in the Market Data Committee.
Valuation techniques range from discounting of cash flows to valuation models. Such models are based on relevant risk factors such
as the market price of underlying reference instruments, market parameters (volatilities, correlations and credit ratings) and customer
behaviour. Some of these risk factors require assumptions which imply that valuation models are subjective by nature. Depending on
what valuation technique is used and what assumptions are made, the obtained fair value can be different. Hence the implied
downward and/or upward uncertainty of the accounting value may vary. For a classification of fair valued exposure to products in
accordance with their degree of valuation uncertainty, refer to the section ‘Financial instruments at fair value’ of Note 37 ‘Fair value of
assets and liabilities’.
All valuation models used are subject to a model governance framework. Model governance refers to a set of policies and procedures
that have to be strictly followed and that cover the complete lifecycle of a model, i.e. its development, validation, approval,
implementation, and maintenance. The pillars of the model governance framework are independent validation and periodic review. A
periodic review aims to determine whether a model is still appropriate for its intended use. Where models are used for valuations,
there can be uncertainty on the assumptions of the underlying models and/or parameters. In those cases where significant
uncertainty on assumptions arises, a model risk valuation adjustment is applied.
In general, positions are valued by taking the bid price for a long position and the offer price for a short position. In cases where
positions are marked at mid-market prices, a fair value adjustment is calculated.
ING has aligned existing fair valuation adjustments with the regulatory standards for fair valued instruments issued by EBA, hence
where possible it follows a unified valuation framework which meets both IFRS and CRR requirements. This approach is supported by a
bank-wide valuation policy framework. Detailed methodologies for fair valued instruments per product and degree of liquidity are
available. These cover among others close out costs and mid-price uncertainty. Benefits of this framework and chosen approach are a
significant increase in consistency and transparency of the fair valuation of financial instruments across different locations and books.
For compliance with EBA regulatory standards an additional valuation adjustment through capital on the concentrated positions (the
Concentration AVA) of EUR 13 million after tax is booked for ING in 2017. On a quarterly basis all valuation adjustments are discussed
and approved in the Global Pricing and Impairment Committee (GP&IC). This committee oversees the valuation framework and
Independent price verification.
To include credit risk in the fair valuation, ING applies both credit and debit valuation adjustments (hereafter referred to as
respectively, CVA and DVA). Own issued debt and structured notes that are priced at Fair Value are adjusted for credit risk by means of
an own credit adjustment. Additionally, derivatives valued at fair value are adjusted for credit risk by a credit valuation adjustment.
This CVA is of a bilateral nature; both the credit risks on the counterparty as well as on ING are included in the adjustment. All market
data that is used in the determination of the CVA is based on market implied data. Additionally, wrong-way risk (when exposure to a
counterparty increases and the credit quality of that counterparty decreases) and right way risk (when exposure to a counterparty
decreases and the credit quality of that counterparty decreases) are included in the adjustment. ING also includes the CVA component
in its pricing of the credit risk for new external trades with counterparties. Risk limits and controls are in place to monitor and
anticipate CVA risk on a daily basis. The CVA is managed by global risk governance, where the risk limits and controls for CVA are
managed and monitored on a global level. The approach of ING on CVA risk management is driven by increased control, cost efficiency
and the global scope of CVA.
ING applies a Funding Valuation Adjustment (FVA) to address the funding costs associated with the collateral funding asymmetry on
uncollateralized or partially collateralized OTC derivatives in the portfolio. This adjustment is based on the expected exposure profiles
of the uncollateralized or partially collateralized OTC derivatives and market-based funding spreads.
FI-FM Risk has the role to challenge the valuation and pricing sources used in the valuation models by Front Office. FI-FM Risk performs
independent price verification to ensure that valuations are correct. The independent price verification and valuation adjustments are
confirmed in the local parameter committee. To ensure segregation of duties between Front Office and FI-FM Risk, the systems for
pricing and price testing are secured in order to prevent unauthorised access.

Risk measurement

ING uses a comprehensive set of methodologies and techniques to measure market risk in trading books: Value at Risk (VaR) and
Stressed Value at Risk (SVaR), Incremental Risk Charge (IRC), and Event Risk (stress testing). Systematic validation processes are in
place to validate the accuracy and internal consistency of data and parameters used for the internal models and modelling processes.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

275

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Basel Committee/CRD IV

ING follows the regulatory framework set out in the Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR/CRD IV) for its regulatory capital
calculations. The BCBS is performing a Fundamental Review of the Trading Book (FRTB), which may have a significant impact on the
Pillar I calculations. In December 2017 the Governors and Heads of Supervision (GHOS) presented the final Basel 3 update package, in
this package the new BCBS target date for implementation and start of reporting of FRTB is 1 January 2022.

Value at Risk

FI-FM Risk uses the historical simulation VaR methodology as its primary risk measure. The VaR for market risk quantifies, with a onesided confidence level of 99%, the maximum overnight loss that could occur in the trading portfolio of ING due to changes in risk
factors (e.g. interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, implied volatilities) if positions remain unchanged for a
time period of one day. Next to general market movements in these risk factors, VaR also takes into account market data movements
for specific moves in e.g. the underlying issuer of securities. A single model that diversifies general and specific risk is used. In general a
full revaluation approach is applied, only for a limited number of linear trading positions and a limited number of risk factors in
commodity and equity risk classes a sensitivity-based approach is applied. The potential impact of historical market movements on
today’s portfolio is estimated, based on equally weighted observed market movements of the previous year (260 days). When
simulating potential movements in risk factors, depending on the risk factor type either an absolute or a relative shift is used. The data
used in the computations is updated daily. ING uses VaR with a 1-day horizon for internal risk measurement, management control,
and backtesting, and VaR with a 10-day horizon for determining regulatory capital. To compute VaR with a 10-day horizon the one
day risk factor shifts are scaled by the square root of ten and then used as input for the revaluation. The same model is used for all
legal entities within ING with market risk exposure in the trading portfolio.

Limitations

VaR has some limitations, such as the following: VaR uses historical data to forecast future price behaviour. Future price behaviour
could differ substantially from past behaviour. Moreover, the use of a one-day holding period (or ten days for regulatory capital
calculations) assumes that all positions in the portfolio can be liquidated or hedged in one day. In periods of illiquidity or market
events, this assumption may not hold. Also, the use of 99% confidence level means that VaR does not take into account any losses
that occur beyond this confidence level.

Backtesting

Backtesting is a technique for the ongoing monitoring of the plausibility of the VaR model in use. Although VaR models estimate
potential future trading results, estimates are based on historical market data. In a backtest, the actual daily trading result (excluding
fees and commissions) is compared with the 1-day VaR. In addition to using actual results for backtesting, ING also uses hypothetical
results, which excludes the effect of intraday trading, fees, and commissions. When the actual or hypothetical loss exceeds the VaR,
an ‘outlier’ occurs. Based on ING’s one-sided confidence level of 99%, an outlier is expected once in every 100 business days. In 2017
there were no occurrences where an actual or hypothetical daily trading loss exceeded the daily consolidated VaR of ING. ING reports
the backtesting results on a quarterly basis to ECB.

Stressed VaR

The SVaR is intended to replicate a VaR calculation that would be generated on the bank’s current portfolio with inputs calibrated to
the historical data from a continuous 12-month period of significant financial stress relevant to the bank’s portfolio. To calculate SVaR,
ING uses the same model that is used for VaR with a 10-day horizon. The historical data period used currently includes the height of
the credit crisis around the fall of Lehman Brothers, and is reviewed regularly. The historical data period is chosen so that it gives the
worst scenario loss estimates for the current portfolio. The same SVaR model is used for management purposes and for regulatory
purposes. The same model is used for all legal entities within ING with market risk exposure in the trading portfolio.

Incremental Risk Charge

The IRC for ING is an estimate of the default and migration risks for unsecuritised credit products in the trading book, over a one-year
capital horizon, with a 99.9% confidence level. The same IRC model is used for all legal entities within ING with market risk exposure in
the trading portfolio. Non-securitised trading positions of ING, which are subject to specific interest rate risk included in the internal
model approach for market risk regulatory capital, are in scope of the IRC model. By model choice, equity is excluded from the model.
For the calculation of IRC, ING performs a Monte-Carlo simulation based on a Gaussian copula model. The asset correlations used in
the Gaussian copula model are determined using the IRB correlation formula. The rating change is simulated for all issuers over the
different liquidity horizons (i.e. time required to liquidate the position or hedge all significant risks) within one year. Movements across
different rating categories and probabilities of default are governed by a credit-ratings transition matrix. An external transition matrix
is obtained from Standard & Poor’s (S&P). The financial impact is then determined for the simulated migration to default, or for the
simulated migration to a different rating category, based on LGD or credit spread changes, respectively.
The liquidity horizon has been set to the regulatory minimum of three months for all positions in scope. ING reviews the liquidity
horizons regularly based on a structured assessment of the time it takes to liquidate the positions in the trading portfolio.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

276

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

ING periodically assesses the compliance of the IRC model with the regulatory requirements by performing gap analyses,
substantiating the modelling choices, and quantifying the impact of alternative approaches.

Stress Testing and Event Risk

Stress Testing and Event Risk are valuable risk management tools. Event Risk evaluates the bank’s financial stability under severe but
plausible stress scenarios and assists in decision-making aiming to maintain the bank being a financially healthy going-concern
institution after a severe event occurs. In addition to the bank-wide stress test framework as described in the stress testing section, FIFM Risk performs separate stressed scenario tests under Event Risk framework to monitor market risks under extreme market
conditions. Since VaR in general does not produce an estimate of the potential losses that can occur as a result of extreme market
movements, ING uses structured stressed scenario tests to calculate Event Risk for monitoring the market risk under these extreme
conditions. Event Risk is based on historical as well as hypothetical extreme scenarios. The result is an estimate of the profit and loss
caused by a potential event and its world-wide impact for ING. The Event Risk number for the ING trading activity is generated on a
weekly basis. Like VaR, Event Risk is limited by ALCO Bank.
ING’s Event Risk policy is based on a large set of possible stress scenarios per risk type (fixed income, equity, foreign exchange, credit
and related derivative markets). In stress scenarios, shocks are applied to prices (credit spreads, interest rates, equity, commodities,
and fx rates) and volatilities. Depending on the type of stress test, additional scenario assumptions could be made, for example on
correlations, dividends, or recovery rates. For example, for equity products both a crisis scenario (prices decrease) as well as a bull
scenario (prices increase) are assumed. Scenarios are calculated based on events happening independently, jointly by region, or in all
countries simultaneously. This way, for each risk type, a large set of scenarios is calculated. The worst scenarios per market are
combined across markets by assessing both independent events per market, and worst events happening in all markets at the same
time.

Other trading controls

VaR and Event Risk limits are the most important limits to control the trading portfolios. Additionally, limits have been set on SVaR and
IRC. Furthermore, ING uses a variety of other controls to supplement these limits. Position and sensitivity limits are used to prevent
large concentrations in specific issuers, sectors, or countries. In addition to this, other risk limits are set with respect to the activities in
complex derivatives trading. The market risk of these products is controlled by product specific limits and constraints.

Risk profile

The following chart shows the development of the overnight VaR under a 99% confidence interval and a 1-day horizon versus actual
and hypothetical daily trading profits and losses. In calculation of the hypothetical daily profit and loss, the trading position is kept
constant and only the market movement is taken into account. The overnight VaR is presented for the ING trading portfolio from 2013
to 2017.

1 CVA risk is not included in VaR. Reserves are not included in the P&L figures.

The risk figures in the table below only relate to the trading books for which the internal model approach is applied.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

277

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

1d VaR for Internal Model Approach trading portfolios1
2017

Minimum
2016

2017

Maximum
2016

2017

Average
2016

2017

Year end
2016

Interest rate

3

3

8

10

4

5

4

5

Equity and commodity

1

2

4

11

3

5

2

4

Foreign exchange

1

1

4

5

2

2

1

2

Credit spread

3

4

7

11

5

6

4

7

-7

-7

-6

-12

6

11

5

6

amounts in millions of euros

Diversification2
Total VaR

4

5

9

22

1 CVA risk is not included in VaR.
2 The total VaR for the columns Minimum and Maximum cannot be calculated by taking the sum of the individual components since the observations for both the
individual markets as well as total VaR may occur on different dates.

In 2017, the average VaR was at a lower level compared to last year, as notable also in different risk types. Over these two years
(2016-2017), the trading portfolios saw a decline in both the level and the volatility of 1-day VaR, thanks to the development of equity
derivatives trading strategy and generally more positive market conditions.
EU MR3: Internal Model Approach values for trading portfolios
amounts in millions of euros

2017

2016

VaR (10 day 99%)
1

Maximum value

43

64

2

Average value

22

33

3

Minimum value

14

9

4

Period end

17

36

Stressed VaR (10 day 99%)
5

Maximum value

96

131

6

Average value

56

72

7

Minimum value

33

40

8

Period end

67

84

Incremental Risk Charge (99.9%)
9

Maximum value

158

292

10

Average value

114

207

11

Minimum value

78

120

12

Period end

78

120

Comprehensive Risk capital charge (99.9%)
13

Maximum value

n/a

n/a

14

Average value

n/a

n/a

15

Minimum value

n/a

n/a

16

Period end

n/a

n/a

Risk position changes were also reflected in the 10 day VaR and 10 day Stressed VaR statistics. Compared to 10 day VaR in 2016, in
2017 position changes led to lower maximum, average, and a lower 10 day VaR at year-end. Similar dynamics are observed in 10 day
Stressed VaR. The overall decrease in IRC in 2017 was largely caused by decreased debt exposures to a number of sovereigns.

Regulatory Capital

According to the Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR/CRD IV), regulatory capital (own funds requirements) for market risk can be
calculated using the standardised approach or an internal model approach. ING received regulatory approval to use an internal model
to determine the regulatory capital for the market risk in all trading books of ING. Market risk capital of trading books is calculated
according to the CRR, using internal VaR, SVaR, and IRC models, where diversification is taken into account. Commodities risk in the
banking books is calculated under Internal Model Approach. However, mismatches in foreign exchange risk from the banking books are
calculated using Standardised Approach with fixed risk weights. ING does not have a Correlation Trading Portfolio or any other
securitisations in the trading book.

Standardised Approach

ING Group Annual Report 2017

278

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

EU MR1: Market risk under Standardised Approach
2017
Capital
RWA requirements

amounts in EUR millions

2016
Capital
RWA requirements

Outright products
1

Interest rate risk (general and specific)

2

Equity risk (general and specific)

3

Foreign exchange risk

4

Commodity risk

1,074

86

1,081

87

1,074

86

1,081

87

Options
5

Simplified approach

6

Delta-plus method

7

Scenario approach

8

Securitization (specific risk)

9

Total

The market risk regulatory capital under Standardized Approach is fully driven by the foreign exchange risk in the banking books. The
foreign exchange risk in the banking books in 2017 remained at comparative level to 2016.

Internal Model Approach
EU MR2-A: Market risk under Internal Model Approach
2017
Capital
RWA requirements

amounts in EUR millions

2016
Capital
RWA requirements

1

VaR (higher of values a and b)

649

52

1,123

90

(a)

Previous day's VaR (Article 365(1) (VaRt-1))

209

17

449

36

(b)

Average of the daily VaR (Article 365(1)) on each of the preceding sixty business days
(VaRavg) x multiplication factor ((mc) in accordance with Article 366)

2

SVaR (higher of values a and b)

(a)

Latest SVaR (Article 365(2) (sVaRt-1))

(b)

Average of the SVaR (Article 365(2) during the preceding sixty business days (sVaRavg)
x multiplication factor (ms) (Article 366)

3

Incremental risk charge -IRC (higher of values a and b)

(a)

Most recent IRC value (incremental default and migration risks section 3 calculated in
accordance with Section 3 articles 370/371)

(b)

Average of the IRC number over the preceding 12 weeks

4

Comprehensive Risk Measure – CRM (higher of values a, b and c)

(a)
(b)

Most recent risk number for the correlation trading portfolio (article 377)
Average of the risk number for the correlation trading portfolio over the preceding 12weeks

(c)

8 % of the own funds requirement in SA on most recent risk number for the correlation
trading portfolio (Article 338(4))

5

Total

649

52

1,123

90

1,750

140

2,546

204

842

67

1,054

84

1,750

140

2,546

204

1,205

96

1,910

153

981

78

1,500

120

1,205

96

1,910

153

3,604

288

5,579

446

The decrease in market risk regulatory capital for trading as of 2017 is mainly due to a decrease in exposures to sovereign issuers and
as a result of a decrease in IRC, and a change in risk positions during 2017 that resulted in decreases in VaR and SVaR. The main
changes in risk positions throughout the year were in trading books within credit and interest rate asset classes, including CVA hedge
portfolio. The CVA hedges are capitalized under market risk framework, while CVA is capitalized under credit risk framework according
to Basel rules.

Sensitivities

As part of the risk monitoring framework, FI-FM Risk actively monitors the daily changes of sensitivities of the trading portfolios.
Sensitivities measure the impact of movements in individual market risk factors (foreign exchange rates, interest rates, credit spreads,
equity, and commodity prices) on profit and loss results of the trading positions and portfolios.
The following tables show the five largest trading foreign exchange positions, and interest rate and credit spread sensitivities. The
credit spread sensitivities are furthermore split in different risk classes and sectors. Due to the nature of the trading portfolios,
positions change from day to day.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

279

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Most important foreign exchange year-end trading positions
amounts in EUR millions

2017

Foreign exchange
US Dollar

2016
Foreign exchange

-45

US Dollar

201

Polish Zloty

28

Romanian New Leu

South Korean Won

26

Chinese Yuan

-40

South Korean Won

-22

Japanese Yen
Taiwan New Dollar

-21
21

45

Czech Koruna

21

Most important interest rate and credit spread sensitivities at year-end
amounts in EUR thousands

2017

Interest Rate (BPV1)

2016
Interest Rate (BPV1)

US Dollar

141

Euro

Russian Ruble

-66

South Korean Won

-44

Japanese Yen

61

Polish Zloty

-32

Taiwan New Dollar

52

Indian Rupee

-23

Polish Zloty

47

Romanian New Leu

Credit Spread (CSO12)

-119

22

Credit Spread (CSO12)

United States

341

United States

333

Supranational

-92

Germany

173

India

-78

Belgium

France

63

Netherlands

-60

74

India

-38

Poland

-38

1 Basis Point Value (BPV) measures the impact on value of a 1 basis point increase in interest rates. The figures include commodity risk in banking books.
2 Credit Spread Sensitivity (CS01) measures the impact on value of a 1 basis point increase in credit spreads. Exposures to supranational institutions are not assigned
to a specific country.

Credit spread sensitivities per risk class and sector at year-end
2017
Financial
Corporate Institutions

amounts in EUR thousands

2016
Financial
Corporate Institutions

Credit Spread (CSO11)
Risk classes
1

(AAA)

2–4

(AA)

-20

-233

-3

-48

-5

-53

-21

5–7

(A)

26

-83

-87

13

8–10

-9

(BBB)

-127

-151

-126

-154

11–13

(BB)

-78

-90

-104

-88

14–16

(B)

-14

-2

17–22

(CCC and NPL)

-4

-1

Not rated
Total

-331

-618

-9
-1

-2

1

1

-241

-283

1 Credit Spread Sensitivity (CS01) measures the impact on value of a 1 basis point increase in credit spreads.

Funding and liquidity risk
Introduction

Funding and liquidity risk is the risk that ING Group or one of its subsidiaries cannot meet its financial liabilities when they come due, at
reasonable cost and in a timely manner. ING incorporates funding and liquidity management in its business strategy, applying a
funding and liquidity risk framework in order to manage such risks within pre-defined limits. The main objective of ING’s funding and
liquidity risk management is to maintain sufficient liquidity to ensure safe and sound operations under normal market circumstances
and in times of stress.

Governance

Within ING, the EB and MBB, staff departments from the CRO and CFO domain, Capital Management and Bank Treasury have oversight
of and are responsible for managing funding and liquidity risk.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

280

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Liquidity risk management within ING falls under the supervision of the ALCO function, which determines the liquidity risk (limit)
framework and appetite after which this is cascaded down in the organisation. ING’s liquidity risk framework is based on the three lines
of defence concept, whereby risk principles are implemented, monitored and controlled in conjunction with both first and second line
functions within the bank.
Bank Treasury and Capital Management are 1st line of defence functions and its main funding and liquidity responsibilities are to
manage ING’s (regulatory) liquidity and funding position. Bank Treasury together with Capital Management are ING’s primary contacts
to the market for long and short term funding. In November 2017, it was approved to merge Bank Treasury and Capital Management
into a new department named Group Treasury. This merge is expected to be completed by June 2018.
The 2nd line Financial Risk function is responsible for defining the governance with regard to funding and liquidity management and
sets the standards for the funding and liquidity risk approach (identify, assess, control, monitor and report). Furthermore, it determines
adequate policies and procedures for managing and monitoring liquidity risk and it checks compliance with guidelines and limits.

Funding & Liquidity Management Framework

The liquidity buffer ING holds is part of the counterbalancing capacity, i.e. the total of available sources and measures within ING to
generate liquidity (including also limiting professional lending), and serves as a cushion for liquidity needs under normal and stressed
conditions.
The size and composition of the Liquidity buffer depends on ING’s risk appetite and regulatory liquidity standards. In the buffer, only
assets are included that are ‘unencumbered’ and freely available for liquidity purposes. Bank Treasury ensures functional
management of all liquidity buffers within ING, both buffers at ING level and buffers at local business unit level.
The liquidity buffer is held as an insurance against a range of stress scenarios, covering the additional need for liquidity that may arise
over a defined short period of time under stress conditions.
Stress testing allows ING to examine the effect of exceptional but plausible future events on the liquidity position of the bank and
provides insight into which entities, business lines or portfolios are vulnerable to which type of risks and/or in which type of scenarios.
In line with SREP and EBA guidance, ING’s liquidity position is stress tested on a monthly basis under a particular scenario that is a mix
between a market event and an ING specific event. The outcomes of stress tests are evaluated and provide input to any follow-up on
the need for additional contingency measures.
ING also monitors an internal net liquidity position metric, which is reported on a consolidated (bank) level for the main entities and
split in euro and US Dollar. On a monthly basis ING reports the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and an internally defined stress scenario
related to a specific time-to-survive period. Additionally, on a quarterly basis, ING reports a number of internally defined stress
scenarios related to specific time-to-survive periods as well as the Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) which is reported based on EBA
guidance.
Overall, (reverse) stress testing is an integral part of the liquidity and funding risk management framework and also serves as input for
the contingency funding plan and risk appetite statements.
In the contingency funding plan, contingency liquidity risk is addressed which specifically relates to the organisation and planning of
liquidity management in time of stress. The contingency funding plans are developed in line with the ING Recovery Plan and are tested
on a regular basis, both centrally and at business unit level.

Liquidity risk appetite

ING Group’s liquidity risk appetite expresses the level of liquidity risk ING is willing to take in pursuit of its strategic objectives. The
Liquidity Risk Appetite Statements (RAS) are aligned with the ING strategy and are allocated to the ING entities by way of limits.
Where relevant the RAS are cascaded down to specific regional and local levels.
ING has defined the following funding and liquidity risk management risk appetite statements:
• Home/host regulatory liquidity limits must be pro-actively complied with;
• The time-to-survive in a funding stress situation must extend over defined period, depending on the level of stress applied;
• Funding of longer-term assets and investments must be done by stable and longer-term liabilities;
• Geographical dependencies with respect to intra-group funding are to be limited; and
• Diversification must be in place of funding profile, across funds providers, instrument types, geographic markets, tenors and
currencies.

Funding and Liquidity approach

ING Group takes an integrated approach to assessing the adequacy of its funding and liquidity position in relation to its balance sheet
profile and its operating environment, whilst taking into account the interests of its various stakeholders.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

281

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

The starting point for ING Group’s assessment of the adequacy of its liquidity position is the overall business strategy and the risk
appetite i.e. the level of financial risk ING Group is willing to accept for growth and value creation, while maintaining a sound balance
sheet. Other relevant factors are developments in the business environment and corresponding business opportunities and risk
exposures as well as developments in the (future) regulatory framework. For example: ING Group takes into account the developments
in applicable regulatory and accounting standards and the setting of MREL/TLAC requirements.
ING Group distinguishes several key drivers of – future – liquidity and funding needs:
• The boundaries set by current and future regulatory requirements (EUR and USD);
• The boundaries set by risk appetite statements (EUR and USD);
• The findings from various stress tests;
• The boundaries regarding the distribution and transferability of liquidity; and
• Any funding/refinancing needs.
Based on all these perspectives ING Group assesses the current and future adequacy of its liquidity position and, if deemed necessary,
takes steps to further improve the position. Aim is to ensure that ING Group has sufficient counterbalancing capacity.

Funding sources

In 2017, ING had readily access to a large variety of funding sources, both short term and long term. In the table below, the various
funding sources are presented in the funding mix:
ING Bank Funding Mix
Funding type
Retail deposits
Corporate & other deposits
Interbank (incl. central bank)
Lending/repurchase agreement
Public debt
Subordinated debt
Total

2017

2016

51%

51%

22%

21%

5%

5%

6%

5%

14%

16%

2%

2%

100%

100%

The funding mix remained well diversified. Retail deposits remained ING’s primary sources of funds and remained stable at 51% of the
total funding mix per year end 2017. The Loan-to-Deposit ratio (excluding securities at amortised costs) remained stable at 1.05 per
year end 2017.

Non-Financial Risk
Introduction

The Non-Financial Risk (NFR) function encompasses the Operational Risk, Information Risk, Corporate Security & Investigations and
Compliance Risk management functions. Risk controls for these functional areas have been implemented by means of policies and
minimum standards which apply to ING’s business processes in the divisions. There is an infrastructure in place enabling management
to track events and non-financial risk issues. ING has a system of internal controls, that is reviewed and updated periodically and as
necessary. ING’s goal is to create an environment of continuous improvement in managing non-financial risks.
ING believes that an effective control environment is essential to build and maintain sustainable businesses, and preserves and
enhances the trust of its customers, employees and shareholders. The Orange Code sets the foundation for the high ethical standards
ING expects from all its employees, business activities and partners. The Orange Code is a manifesto that describes our way of
working. It is comprised of ING Values, requiring all staff to act with integrity, whilst being honest, prudent and responsible - and the
ING Behaviours - our way of being that makes us different from the rest.

Governance

The Head of Corporate Operational Risk Management (CORM), Corporate Information Risk Management (CIRM), Corporate Security &
Investigations (CSI) and Corporate Compliance Risk Management (CCRM) report to the Chief Compliance Officer (CCO)/Head of NonFinancial Risk (NFR) and are jointly responsible for developing the framework of non-financial risk policies and standards within ING and
for monitoring the adherence to and quality of non-financial risk management in the business.
The Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) is the Head of the Compliance Risk Management function. This is an independent function
responsible for developing and establishing the Bank-wide policies and minimum standards for managing compliance risks. The CCO
assists and supports the EB and MBB in managing ING’s compliance risks and control framework. The CCO is a permanent participant
of the Risk Committee of the Supervisory Board and meets regularly with its Chairman.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

282

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Non-Financial Risk Committees (NFRCs) and Management Teams (MTs) manage, measure and monitor operational, information and
compliance risks. The Bank NFRC is the primary approval and oversight committee for non-financial risk matters. Additionally NFRCs
exist at Division and/or Entity level providing input to the Bank NFRC. They are chaired by the first line of defence with the purpose to
steer the risk management activities of the first and second lines of defence in their scope. Non-financial risk topics are an integral part
of the agenda of regular MTs at various levels in the organisation.
The NFR function uses a layered functional approach within divisions to support a systematic and consistent implementation of the
framework of policies and minimum standards within ING. To avoid potential conflicts of interests, it is imperative that staff in this
function are independent and objective when advising business management on non-financial risk matters in their business unit or
business line. To facilitate this, a functional reporting line to the next higher level within Operational Risk Management (ORM),
Information Risk Management (IRM) and Compliance is in place. The functional reporting line has clear accountabilities with regard to
objectives setting, remuneration, performance management and appointment of new staff as well as obligations to veto and escalate.

Framework

Non-financial risk is the risk of financial loss, legal or regulatory sanctions, or reputational damage due to inadequate or failing internal
processes, people and systems; a failure to comply with laws, regulations and standards; or external events. ING has a framework for
non-financial risks that supports and governs the process of identifying, measuring, mitigating, monitoring and reporting non-financial
risks. It reflects the stages described in the Enterprise Risk Management model of COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the
Treadway Commission).
Processes aims at identifying key threats, vulnerabilities and the associated risks which might cause adverse events. Event
identification is performed and precedes a risk assessment. Different techniques for event identification exist within ING, e.g. Risk &
Control Self-Assessments, scenario analysis, external events inventories, internal events analyses (e.g. lessons learned based on
information from event reporting), business environment assessment and monitoring .

Risk & Control Self-Assessment

Identification and assessment (RCSA) of non-financial risks inherent to ING products, activities, people, processes and systems provide
management with an understanding of the operational risk profile. Based on the identification and assessment, internal controls are
designed for mitigation of risks to remain within the risk appetite.

Business Environment Assessment

The Business Environment Assessment (BEA) assesses internal control factors and external factors that could influence the internal
and external operating environment in the future, and which may lead to unacceptable operational risk exposure and endanger
achieving our strategic objectives.

Scenario analysis

Scenario analysis is a process used to consider the impact of rare, significant, yet plausible future events, taking into consideration
alternative possible outcomes for those events, their severity and frequency. Input for scenario analysis includes the results of various
internal and external assessments such as the BEA. Scenario analysis is an important component in the calculation of operational risk
capital.

Internal events analyses

Analysis of internal non-financial loss data assists in identifying, quantifying, mitigating and monitoring operational risk exposure. It
provides insight into causes and effectiveness of associated controls. Supporting the creation and sharing of Lessons Learned for
significant internal events is one of the means by which NFR enhances the internal control framework of ING.

External events inventories

External non-financial loss data provides valuable information about the losses experienced by other businesses, and assists ING to
quantify its exposure to risk events that have not been experienced internally.
Business units and departments perform regular monitoring activities, BEAs and Risk & Control Self-Assessments (RCSAs) to identify
and assess risks. These are conducted with involvement of the business and their ORM, IRM, Compliance and/or Legal departments.
Based on the results of the risk assessment, response measures must be determined for the identified risks beyond the risk appetite.
Risk response can be achieved through several combinations of mitigation strategies, for example reducing likelihood of occurrence,
reducing impact, risk avoidance, risk acceptance or through the transfer of risk. Tracking takes place through ING’s central risk
management system.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

283

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

The risk appetite (defined as the acceptable and authorised maximum level of risk) is set by the Supervisory Board based on a proposal
made by the Bank NFRC and approved by the EB and MBB. Adherence to this risk appetite is monitored quarterly through the NFR
Dashboard which reports the key non-financial risk exposures. The NFR Dashboard provides management at country, divisional and
bank level with an overview of key risks within the non-financial risk areas including compliance risks, information security risks,
continuity risks, control & processing risks, fraud, unauthorised activities risks, and personal and physical security risks, enabling
management to focus and set priorities.
The yearly objective setting process for both business management and NFR professionals aims to keep improving the management
of non-financial risk throughout ING to safeguard that ING stays in control of its current and future non-financial risks.
The Non-Financial Risk (NFR) reporting deliverables consist primarily of the quarterly Non-Financial Risk Dashboard (NFRD) report and a
monthly NFRD booklet. The iRisk tool (Governance, Risk & Compliance solution) serves as the single source of truth for NFR information
and supports the three lines of Defence in their Risk Management and Reporting activities.

Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA)

ING has an Operational Risk Capital model in place in which the risk profile is closely tailored to its internal risk profile and its divisions,
by using scenario data for capturing severe unlikely risks and internal loss and RCSA data for capturing day-to-day risks. The business
has a leading role in assessing scenario severities, with the ORM function validating and challenging the results. The internal data are
combined with external loss data (ORX) in the AMA capital calculation. Since April 2013, ING is allowed to use its AMA model for
regulatory supervision purposes. ING reports the regulatory capital numbers on a quarterly basis. The AMA capital requirement per the
end of 2017 amounts to EUR 3,207 million, compared to EUR 3,242 million per 2016 year-end.

Risk mitigations

ING is currently not using any insurance or risk transfer mechanisms for the mitigation of risk in the context of the AMA capital
calculation.

Operational risk
Definition

Operational risk is defined as the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and
systems or from external events.

Risk categories

ING categorises operational risks in a number of risk areas:
•
•
•

•
•
•
•

•

Information (Technology) risk is the risk of financial loss, regulatory sanctions or reputational damage due to breaches of
confidentiality, integrity or availability within business processes or information or lack of information quality;
Continuity risk is the risk of financial loss, regulatory sanctions or reputational damage due to business disruptions (loss of people,
processes, systems, data, premises);
Control and processing risk are the risks of financial loss, regulatory sanctions or reputational damage due to ineffective
organisation structures and governance procedures (including unclear roles and responsibilities and inadequate reporting
structure), failed (transaction) processing (input, execution, output) or failing process management; monitoring and enforcement
of risk mitigating measures; and risk culture;
Internal fraud risk is the risk of financial loss, regulatory sanctions or reputational damage due to deliberate abuse of procedures,
systems, assets, products and/or services of ING by employees (incl. temporary workers, third party contractors, internships and
consultants) who intend to deceitfully or unlawfully benefit themselves or others;
External fraud risk is the risk of financial loss, regulatory sanctions or reputational damage due to deliberate abuse of procedures,
systems, assets, products and/or services of ING by external parties (clients, potential clients or other third parties, including
vendors and outside agencies) who intend to deceitfully or unlawfully benefit themselves or others;
Unauthorised activity risk is the risk of financial loss, regulatory sanctions or reputational damage due to employees performing
outside the normal course of their business, intentionally giving unauthorised approvals or overstepping of their authority;
Personal and physical security risk is the risk of financial loss, regulatory sanctions or reputational damage due to criminal and
environmental threats that might endanger the security or safety of ING personnel at work, people in ING locations, ING assets or
assets entrusted to ING, people at ING event locations, or might have an impact on ING organisation's confidentiality, integrity or
availability; and
Employment practice risk is the risk of financial loss, regulatory sanctions or reputational damage due to acts inconsistent with
employment, health and/or safety laws, regulations or agreements, from payment of personal injury claims, or from diversity
/discrimination events.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

284

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Operational risk includes the related risk of reputation loss, as well as legal risk; strategic risks are not included. Reputational risk is
defined as the possibility that adverse publicity regarding ING’s business practices and associations, whether accurate or not, will
cause a loss of confidence in the integrity of ING. Reputational risk is multidimensional and reflects the perception of other market
participants, like customers, counterparties, shareholders, investors or regulators that can adversely affect ING’s ability to maintain
existing, or establish new, business relationships and continued access to sources of funding (e.g. through the interbank or
securitisation markets).
Legal risk is defined as the risk related to (i) a failure (or perceived failure) to adhere to applicable laws, regulations and standards, (ii)
contractual liabilities or contractual obligations that are defaulted or cannot be enforced as intended, or are enforced in an
unexpected or adverse way, and (iii) liability (tort) towards third parties due to an act or omission contributable to ING (potentially)
resulting in impairment of ING’s integrity, leading to damage to ING’s reputation, legal or regulatory sanctions, or financial loss.
Given the heavy reliance on IT systems in financial institutions, controls that monitor the various aspects of IT risk, such as integrity
and confidentiality, are embedded in ING’s risk and control framework.

Main developments in 2017
Internal and external fraud

The risk of clients and ING staff being targeted by fraudsters using social engineering techniques to execute payments is still
increasing and CxO impersonation fraud (criminals investigate the senior management structure of an organisation and target key
positions) and invoice fraud remain significant threats. Efforts are undertaken to mitigate the risk such as creating awareness for
customers and staff, and sharing of lessons learned across ING. ING stringently monitors both this type of fraud and new emerging
fraud methodologies. In addition, ING is increasingly using innovative methods such as big data analytics to further strengthen its
fraud resilience.
ING continues working on strengthening its global fraud resilience and to strengthen its control environment as fraudsters turn their
interest to the end-user. Combining automated fraud detection tools that can be used for monitoring or early detection of fraudulent
incoming and outgoing payments remains important in fraud prevention. These are used to further enhance an effective set of
organisational controls.

Cybercrime

Cybercrime remains a continuous threat to companies in general and to financial institutions specifically. Both the frequency and the
intensity of attacks increase on a global scale.
Particularly threats from Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS), targeted attacks (also called Advanced Persistent Threats) and
Ransomware intensify worldwide. ING builds on its cybercrime resilience, further enhancing the control environment to protect, detect
and respond to e-banking fraud, DDoS and targeted attacks. Additional controls continue to be embedded in the organisation as part
of the overall internal control framework and are regularly re-assessed against existing and new threats.
ING also works on strengthening its global cybercrime resilience including strong collaboration against cybercrime with the financial
industry, law enforcement authorities, government (e.g. National Cyber Security Center) and Internet Service Providers (ISPs).

User Access Management (UAM)

User Access Management (UAM) is an important element of our control framework to mitigate unauthorized and / or inappropriate
access to our data and information. The standards of controls on UAM are high and best practices illustrate that the trends are
towards further increasing requirements, resulting in a updated set of UAM requirements in 2017. We have started compliance testing
and identified control deficiencies related to UAM at an early stage in 2017. A dedicated central UAM team coordinated, assessed,
monitored and tracked remediation efforts that resulted in early response and early mitigation of deficiencies due to increased focus
by the MBB, senior management and ING staff. These ongoing global initiatives resulted in a significant improvement in 2017. In 2018,
management continue to enhance the internal controls, mitigation and monitoring the progress of mitigation and remediation.

Compliance risk
Definition

Compliance risk is defined as the risk of impairment of ING’s integrity, leading to damage to ING’s reputation, legal or regulatory
sanctions, or financial loss, due to a failure (or perceived failure) to comply with applicable laws, regulations and standards and the ING
Values as part of the Orange Code. We aim to effectively manage compliance risks that could expose ING to reputational damage,
fines, civil and criminal penalties, payment of damages, court orders and suspension or revocation of licenses that would adversely
impact our customers, staff, shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Compliance Risk Management function established a compliance control framework in which controls are defined based on laws,
regulations and standards that are part of the internal control framework of ING applicable to non-financial risks. To support
management in mitigating compliance risks, the Bank Compliance Risk Management function trains and advices the business in

ING Group Annual Report 2017

285

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

managing compliance risks related to e.g. money laundering, terrorist financing, sanction and export control compliance, conflicts of
interests, misselling, corruption and protection of customers’ interests, Financial Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA), Common
Reporting Standard (CRS), and US withholding tax and information reporting regulations.

Risk categories

ING categorises compliance risk into four conduct-related integrity risk areas:
• Client conduct refers to the compliance risks arising from the relationship with or generated by the conduct of our clients and/or
business partners, like money laundering or terrorist financing. Those risks are generally defined within ING as Financial Economic
Crimes (“FEC”). Furthermore, Client conduct refers to the compliance risks relating to FATCA, CRS, and US withholding tax and
information reporting regulations;
• Personal conduct refers to the compliance risks arising from the conduct of ING employees;
• Financial Services conduct refers to the compliance risks arising from or generated by the conduct of ING when developing,
marketing and/or selling products and services to its clients; and
• Organisational conduct refers to the compliance risks arising from the way the Bank is organising itself to develop its activities. This
category covers for instance the licences required to perform its regulated banking activities or the operating effectiveness of its
information barriers.
Controls aiming to mitigate the compliance risks associated with the above mentioned risk areas are designed and applied to the dayto-day processes in the bank. The effectiveness of the controls is tested periodically, and senior management has responsibility that
their processes are compliant with applicable laws and regulations, ING’s internal policies and the Orange Code.
In cases where an employee of ING suspects an actual or suspected irregularity or misconduct within ING that leads or could lead to a
violation of ING Orange Code, any ING policy and/or any law, regulation or code, this can be reported anonymously in line with the
Whistle-blower Policy, via internal or external channels next to normal reporting channels.

Financial Economic Crime (FEC) Policy and Minimum Standards

The FEC Policy and Minimum Standards reflect relevant national and international laws, regulations and industry standards. The FEC
Policy is mandatory and applies to all ING entities, majority owned ING business, businesses under management control, staff
departments, product lines and to all client engagements and transactions.
Management of ING entities maintain local procedures aiming at enabling them to comply with local laws, regulations and the FEC
Policy and Minimum Standards. Where local laws and regulations are more stringent, the local laws and regulations are applied.
Likewise the FEC Policy and Minimum Standards prevail when the standards therein are stricter than stipulated in local laws and
regulations and if not specifically forbidden.
The FEC Policy and Minimum Standards set the requirements for all ING entities to guard against any involvement in criminal activity.
The requirements in the FEC Policy cover minimum standards and controls related to: money laundering, terrorist financing, export
trade controls, proliferation financing, sanctions (economic, financial and trade) and countries designated by ING as Ultra High Risk
Countries (UHRC).
As a result of frequent evaluation of the businesses from economic, strategic and risk perspective ING continues to believe that for
business reasons doing business involving certain specified countries should be discontinued. In that respect, ING has a policy not to
enter into new relationships with clients from these countries and processes remain in place to discontinue existing relationships
involving these countries. At present these countries are Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan and Syria. Each of these countries is subject to
EU and/or US sanctions regimes. Iran, Sudan, and Syria are identified by the US as state sponsors of terrorism and are subject to US
economic sanctions and export controls.
Also in 2017, the Ukraine-related sanctions as imposed earlier by both the US (including further extensions of the scope have been
imposed by the US) and the EU remained in force. Those sanctions restrict amongst others the dealing in specific (financial) products
with certain named parties. Management of ING entities use their existing control framework to remain compliant. Newly imposed
sanctions on Venezuela also include restrictions on financing Venezuelan government owned entities.

Main developments in 2017
Regulatory developments

Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is resource-intensive. Banks continue to be faced with new and increasingly onerous
regulatory requirements, and we expect the scope and extent of regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate to generally
increase further.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

286

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Regulation is becoming increasingly more extensive and complex. A recent example is the implementation of the Common Reporting
Standard (CRS), which like FATCA requires financial institutions to report detailed client-related information to the competent
authorities. Customer due diligence (CDD) and transaction monitoring impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain
appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering , terrorist financing, and fraud.
Despite our efforts to comply with applicable laws and regulations, there are a number of risks in areas where applicable regulations
are unclear, subject to multiple interpretations or under development, are in conflict with each other, or where regulators revise their
guidance or courts set new legal standards. Meeting all these requirements within the strict timelines that are set poses a significant
operational challenge for banks. Implementing the necessary processes and procedures to effectively comply has significant
implications for IT systems and data, while people who have the necessary knowledge and skills are scarce.

4th AML Directive

The 4th AML Directive, as issued by the European Union, has been incorporated into the update of the ING Financial Economic Crime
Policy and Minimum Standards. The main changes in this Directive (compared to the 3rd AML Directive) are related to: the
establishment of an Ultimate Beneficial Owner (UBO) register (at national level with the potential to share the information within the
European Economic Area (EEA)) and a stronger approach towards the application of due diligence on ING’s customers. The
implementation date of the Directive was 26 June 2017. The implementation of the directive into Dutch law was expected in July
2017, but has been delayed, probably until early 2018. ING started to implement several KYC enhancements in 2017.
On 5 July 2016 the European Commission presented a new proposal for a Directive amending the 4th AML Directive (so called 5th AML
Directive). The aim of the proposal is to tackle new means of terrorist financing, increase transparency to combat money laundering
and help strengthen the fight against tax avoidance. On 8 June 2017, the EU Council adopted its position on the proposed Directive.
The Council and the Parliament will enter into negotiations on the final text as soon as the latter has decided on its position.
In addition, the European Supervisory Authorities (ESAs) issued their final Guidelines on risk factors on 26 June 2017, which will
become applicable by 26 June 2018. These Guidelines promote a common understanding of the risk-based approach to AML/CFT and
set out how it should be applied in the context of the 4th EU AML Directive. Furthermore, on 22 September 2017 the ESAs also issued
their final Guidelines to prevent the abuse of funds transfers for terrorist financing and money laundering purposes. These guidelines
will apply from six months after the date on which they are issued.
A bank-wide programme has been launched in the area of Know Your Customer (KYC). Its objective is twofold : (i) to enhance the
information the bank is required to maintain about its clients, in line with the additional requirements stemming from the 4th AntiMoney Laundering directive, and (ii) to address the areas for improvement that have been identified about the effectiveness of the
control framework applicable to the Financial Economic Crime domain, especially with respect to its Client Activity Monitoring
capabilities and the integrated risk profiles of the clients. The programme aims to develop solutions of a structural nature to support a
compliant-by-design approach. Other client-related policies are in scope of the KYC programme (e.g. FATCA, CRS). The programme is
expected to run till end of 2020. With respect to specific proceedings, see Note 45 ‘Legal proceedings’ to the consolidated annual
accounts.
Financial Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA)
Under provisions of US tax law commonly referred to as FATCA, non-US financial institutions are required to provide certain
information on their US account holders and/or certain US investors to the US Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). A 30% withholding tax
will be imposed on ‘withholdable payments’ made to non-compliant non-US financial institutions. The Group intends to take all
necessary steps to comply with FATCA and other US withholding tax regulations. ING is for example updating and strengthening its
withholding compliance programme and reviewing, amending and filing the necessary tax returns and information reports.
Many countries, including the Netherlands, have entered into agreements (‘intergovernmental agreements’ or ‘IGAs’) with the US to
facilitate the type of information reporting required under FATCA. While the existence of IGAs will not eliminate the risk of the
withholding described above, these agreements are expected to reduce that risk for financial institutions and investors in countries
that have entered into IGAs. IGAs often require financial institutions in those countries to report information on their US account
holders to the taxing authorities of those countries, who then passes the information to the IRS.
If the Group cannot rely on IGA or satisfy the requirements, certain payments to the Group may be subject to withholding under
FATCA. Certain payments may also be subject to other US withholding tax regulations. The possibility of such withholding and the
need for account holders and investors to provide certain information may adversely affect the sales of certain of the Group’s
products. In addition, compliance with the terms of such IGAs and with FATCA, any regulations or other guidance promulgated
thereunder, or any legislation promulgated under an IGA, and offering products that generate ‘withholdable payments’, may
substantially increase the Group’s compliance costs. Failure to comply with FATCA and other US withholding tax regulations could
harm our reputation and could subject the Group to enforcement actions, fines and penalties, which could have a material adverse
effect on our business, reputation, revenues, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

287

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

In 2017, FATCA Policy ownership (including advisory and monitoring) transferred from Corporate Tax to Corporate Compliance. Also in
2017, ING issued a new, comprehensive policy which addresses the compliance requirements for withholding US taxes from our
customers, remitting the tax to the US Internal Revenue Service (‘IRS’), and annually providing our customers and the IRS with
summary reports of payments made and taxes withheld.
Common Reporting Standard (CRS)
Similarly, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (‘OECD’) has developed a Common Reporting Standard (‘CRS’)
and model competent authority agreement to enable the multilateral and automatic exchange of financial account information. CRS
requires financial institutions to identify and report the tax residency and account details of non-resident customers to the relevant
authorities in jurisdictions adhering to CRS. As 10 November 2017, 96 jurisdictions (‘signatory countries’), including the Netherlands,
have signed a multilateral competent authority agreement to automatically exchange information pursuant to CRS. The majority of
countries where ING has a presence have committed to CRS. The EU has made CRS mandatory for all its member states. The first
information exchange by the Netherlands (as for approximately half of the signatory countries) was executed in 2017. Other signatory
countries commence their information exchange in 2018.

Non-Financial Risk Awareness & Learning
Promoting Integrity Programme

The Promoting Integrity Programme was started in 2010 and is a programme consisting of e-learning modules on key bank-wide
topics that can be followed-up with dialogue sessions in which managers discuss the issues raised with their teams. The programme is
sponsored by board members and senior managers and is created for the benefit of every employee in every part of ING to enhance
the understanding of how their actions and behaviour can help earn and retain customer and stakeholder trust. In 2017, Integrity led
behaviour was addressed by means of the mandatory PIP e-learning ‘ING Values: Integrity in practice’ which was rolled out globally.

Compliance Forum ING

In 2017, Compliance Risk Management developed a Compliance Forum for Compliance Officers within ING worldwide. This forum is about
building expertise and sharing experience. The focus is on regulatory developments, innovation and the future of compliance – what
compliance officers can do to Think Forward. Participants are engaged in lively discussions on current topics, take part in workshops and
plenary sessions to experience and develop the new ways of working within ING. Participants can connect with colleagues from across
the globe and share knowledge and views on the compliance function of the future. Part of the Compliance community was trained in
2017 and in 2018 the remainder will be trained.

Compliance Risk Culture Monitoring

The Compliance Risk Management function enhanced its control framework by assessing the operation of soft controls in relation to
compliance risks in addition to hard controls. The aim of Compliance Risk Culture Monitoring is to assess the risks that might influence
the conduct and risk culture, promoting the individual integrity of the employees and enhancing the overall culture that is led by
integrity.

Business Risk
Introduction

Business Risk for ING has been defined as the exposure to value loss due to fluctuations in volumes/margins as well as expenses. It is
the risk inherent to strategy decisions and internal efficiency. Business risk capital is calculated via the variance-covariance
methodology for expense risk, covering the risk that expenses will deviate from the expected expenses over the horizon of the relevant
activities. This risk primarily relates to the (in)flexibility to adjust expenses, when that is needed. Expense risk only concerns nonfinancial expenses (e.g. staff and IT expenses); financial expenses are not in scope.

Governance and risk management

The governance and management of Business Risk differs from the risk types that have been described in the sections before. In the
course of 2017 ING has developed explicit risk appetite statements regarding business risk, focusing on earnings stability and
diversification of the business mix, as avoiding to put all eggs in one basket reduces the risk that volumes and/or margins will suddenly
drop due to unexpected changes in the business environment for certain markets and products. Furthermore, the underlying risk
types (expense risk and volume-margin risk) are also mitigated and managed in a different way. Expense risk is monitored and
managed via the financial performance of the bank and the local units, whereby the reported expense numbers are compared on a
quarterly basis with the 2020 Ambition of having a cost/income ratio between 50% and 52%. Deviations from this ambition are
monitored as part of the financial projections that are discussed continuously within different parts of the organisation.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

288

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Capital management
Objectives

ING Group Capital Management (Capital Management) is responsible for the adequate capitalisation given regulatory constraints of
ING Group and ING Bank entities at all times in order to manage the risk associated with ING’s business activities. This involves not only
the management, planning and allocation of capital within ING Group, ING Bank and its various entities, but also the necessary capital
market transactions, term (capital) funding and risk management transactions. ING takes an integrated approach to assess the
adequacy of its capital position in relation to its risk profile and its operating environment. This implies taking into account the
interests of its various stakeholders. Capital Management takes into account the metrics and requirements of regulators, rating
agencies and internal risk based boundaries such as defined in the Risk Appetite Framework.
ING applies the following main capital definitions:
• Common equity Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Total capital – Common equity Tier 1 capital is defined as shareholders’ equity less
regulatory adjustments. Common equity Tier 1 capital including Additional Tier 1 (hybrid) securities and other regulatory
adjustments is defined as Tier 1 capital. Total Capital is Tier 1 capital including subordinated Tier 2 liabilities and regulatory
adjustments. Common equity Tier 1, Tier 1 and Total capital divided by risk-weighted assets equal the Common equity Tier 1, Tier
1 and Total capital ratios respectively. Common equity Tier 1 capital is equal to Tier 1 capital excluding Additional Tier 1 (hybrid)
capital;
• Common equity Tier 1 Risk Appetite – the solvency risk appetite statement is not only compared to the actual reported level, but
also includes the potential impact of a standardised and deterministic 1-in-10-year stress event (i.e. at a 90% confidence level
with a 1-year horizon) as described in the Risk Management section;
• Overall Capital Requirement (OCR). The OCR means that ING’s own funds exceeds the sum of the total SREP capital requirement
(wherein per risk type the maximum is taken of Regulatory and Economic Capital requirements), capital buffer requirements and
macro-prudential requirements.

Developments

The capital position further strengthened in 2017 reflecting strong profitability based on core lending growth but with a lower risk
weight and complemented with further optimisation of the capital structure. At both consolidated and entity level, ING has sufficient
buffers to withstand certain adverse scenarios without breaching currently applicable and possible future requirements.
In 2017, a total of USD 2.1 billion grandfathered additional Tier 1 instruments were redeemed. ING Groep NV did not issue additional
Tier 1 instruments during the year. In 2017, EUR 1.0 billion ING Bank Tier 2 bonds were exchanged for ING Group Tier 2 notes at similar
terms. In addition, ING Groep NV issued EUR 1.8 billion of Tier 2 bonds and EUR 0.4 billion of Tier 2 private placements in Japanese Yen
and USD.
To support orderly resolution, ING is required to meet minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL). In addition,
ING as a Global Systemically Important Bank (G-SIB) needs to comply with the total loss absorption capacity (TLAC) proposal published
by the Financial Stability Board (FSB) in November 2015. The TLAC standard is being incorporated in the proposed Capital
Requirements Directive and Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive revision. This legislation is not yet finalised. To improve the loss
absorbing capacity for TLAC/MREL regulations ING Groep NV issued EUR 6 billion of senior HoldCo debt in 2017.
The transitional (phased-in) common equity Tier 1 requirement that ING Group had to meet on a consolidated basis was set at 9.02%
in 2017. This requirement is the sum of a 4.5% Pillar 1 requirement, a 1.75% Pillar 2 requirement, a 1.25% Capital Conservation Buffer
(CCB), a 0.02% Countercyclical Buffer and the 1.50% Systemic Risk Buffer which has been set separately for Dutch systemic banks by
the Dutch Central Bank (De Nederlandsche Bank). This requirement excludes Pillar 2 guidance, which is not disclosed. The CCB and the
Systemic Risk Buffer (SRB) are scheduled to phase-in to 2.5% and 3.0% respectively by 1 January 2019 respectively.
For 2018, the transitional (phased-in) SREP common equity Tier 1 requirement will be 10.43%. This requirement consists of a 4.5%
Pillar 1 requirement, a 1.75% Pillar 2 requirement, a 1.875% CCB, countercyclical buffer of 0.06% (based on December 2017 positions)
and the 2.25% SRB. This excludes Pillar 2 guidance, which is not disclosed.
Consequently, Maximum Distributable Amount (MDA) trigger level is expected to rise from 9.0% in 2017 to 10.4% in 2018 and 11.8% in
2019 and assumes a stable Pillar 2 requirement. In the event that ING Group breaches the MDA level it may face restrictions to pay
dividends, coupons on AT1 instruments and bonuses.
ING Group continues to maintain a strong and high quality capital level, with a phased-in common equity Tier 1 ratio and a fullyloaded common equity Tier 1 ratio of 14.7% as at 31 December 2017, thereby ING is in compliance with the current fully-loaded
requirement of 11.8%, assuming all capital buffers remain stable.
The phased-in and fully-loaded Group Tier 1 ratio (including grandfathered securities) as at 31 December 2017 respectively decreased
from 16.3% to 16.2% and 16.6% to 16.4%. The phased and fully-loaded total capital ratio (including grandfathered securities) of ING
Groep NV respectively decreased from 19.3% to 18.5% and 19.7% to 19.1%.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

289

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Capital ratios now reflects the impact of the interpretation of the EBA Q&A published on 3 November 2017. This Q&A relates to
externally placed own funds from a subsidiary in conjunction with the availability to absorb losses at the consolidated level.
Impact will mostly disappear in the coming years as ING Group going forward will be the issuing entity for all new capital instruments.
At the end of January 2017, the Single Resolution Board informed ING that it supports the designation of ING Group as the single point
of entry for resolution purposes. Henceforth, ING Group will be the issuing entity for all TLAC/ MREL eligible debt consisting of additional
Tier 1, Tier 2 and senior unsecured debt. The Single Resolution Board has not yet set legally binding MREL requirements. Any potential
(higher) shortfall related to legally binding MREL requirements, new regulatory initiatives and balance sheet growth will be met with
additional Group issuance.
G-SIBs will be required to meet the TLAC requirement alongside the minimum regulatory requirements set out in the Basel III
framework. Specifically, the TLAC term sheet requires ING to meet a minimum TLAC requirement including buffer requirements of at
least 21.5% of the resolution group’s risk-weighted assets (TLAC RWA Minimum) as from 1 January 2019 and at least 23.5% as from 1
January 2022. Also minimum TLAC must also be at least 6% of the Basel III leverage ratio denominator (TLAC Leverage Ratio Exposure
(LRE) Minimum) as from 1 January 2019, and at least 6.75% as from 1 January 2022. No buffer requirements will come on top of the
leverage requirement.
ING Bank NV continues to maintain a strong and high quality capital level, with a fully-loaded common equity Tier 1 ratio and a
phased-in common equity Tier 1 ratio of 13.1%, thereby complying with CRR/CRD IV solvency requirements. ING Bank NV paid EUR 3.2
billion of dividend to ING Group in 2017. The fully loaded Tier 1 ratios (including grandfathered securities) remained stable at 14.7%,
while the phased-in Tier 1 ratio (including grandfathered securities) increased form 14.4% to 14.6%, primarily reflecting developments
in ING Bank’s common equity Tier 1 ratio. The Banks’s fully loaded and phased in total capital ratio (including grandfathered securities)
respectively increased from 17.8% to 18.3% and 17.4% to 18.2%.

Dividend

ING Group’s dividend policy aims to pay a progressive dividend that will reflect considerations including expected future capital
requirements, growth opportunities available to the Group, net earnings, and regulatory developments. The Executive Board proposes
to pay a total cash dividend of EUR 2.6 billion, or EUR 0.67 per ordinary share, over the financial year 2017. This is subject to the
approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in April 2018. Taking into account the interim dividend of EUR 0.24 per
ordinary share paid in August 2017, the final dividend will amount to EUR 0.43 per ordinary share and will be paid fully in cash. The
total amount of EUR 1.7 billion is completely covered by the remaining balance of 'interim profits not included in CET1 capital' at yearend 2017.

Policies

The activities of Capital Management are executed on the basis of established policies, guidelines and procedures. For the Capital
Treasury there are additional policies and limits that guide the management of the balance sheets and the execution of capital
market transactions.

Processes for managing capital

Besides measuring capital adequacy, Capital Management also ensures that sufficient capital is available through setting targets and
limits relevant to the above mentioned metrics for ING Group and ING Bank and ensuring adherence to the set limits and targets
through planning and executing capital management transactions. The ongoing assessment and monitoring of capital adequacy is
embedded in Capital Management’s capital planning process. Following the annual budgeting process, each year a capital plan is
prepared for the Group as a whole and each of its material businesses. This plan is updated on a quarterly basis and is assessed to
what extent additional management actions are required. At all times maintaining sufficient financial flexibility should be preserved to
meet important financial objectives. At the foundation of the capital plan are ING’s risk appetite statements that determine target
setting. These constraints are being cascaded to the different businesses in line with our risk management strategy.
Stress testing is an integral component of ING’s risk and capital management framework. It allows us to (i) assess potential
vulnerabilities in our businesses, business model or portfolios; (ii) understand the sensitivities of the core assumptions in our strategic
and capital plans; and (iii) improve decision-making through balancing risk and return. In addition to internal stress test scenarios
reflecting the outcomes of the annual risk assessment, ING also participates in regulatory stress test exercises. ING participated in the
2017 EU-wide stress test that the ECB conducted in order to assess the sensitivity towards Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

290

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Capital adequacy assessment

As at 1 January 2014, the CRR/CRD IV capital rules entered into force. The capital position table reflects own funds according to the
Basel III rules as specified in the CRR/CRD IV. As CRD IV will be phased-in gradually until 2019, the table shows the CRD IV positions
according to the 2019 end-state rules and the 2017 rules. ING reports these metrics for ING Group and ING Bank. During 2017, ING
Group and ING Bank were adequately capitalised.
ING Group capital position
(fully-loaded)

Shareholders’ equity

(phased-in)

2017

2016

2017

2016

50,406

49,793

50,406

49,793
–1,629

−

Interim profit not included in CET1 capital1

–1,670

–1,629

–1,670

−

Other adjustments

–3,186

–3,596

–3,154

-3,698

Regulatory adjustments

–4,856

–5,225

–4,825

–5,327

Available common equity Tier 1 capital

45,550

44,568

45,581

44,466

5,137

7,706

5,137

7,706

42

0

–393

-809

Available Tier 1 capital

50,729

52,274

50,326

51,364

Supplementary capital Tier 2 bonds3

11,086

9,488

11,086

9,488

Regulatory adjustments Tier 2

-2,517

109

–4,001

–86

Available Total capital4

59,298

61,871

57,410

60,765

Risk weighted assets

309,887

314,325

309,887

314,325

Common equity Tier 1 ratio

14.70%

14.18%

14.71%

14.15%

Tier 1 ratio

16.37%

16.63%

16.24%

16.34%

Total capital ratio

19.14%

19.68%

18.53%

19.33%

Additional Tier 1 securities2
Regulatory adjustments additional Tier 1

1 The interim profit not included in CET1 capital as per 31 December 2017 (EUR 1,670 million) includes EUR 44 million for 4Q2017 (YTD 4Q2017: EUR 2,603 million)
minus a ING Group interim dividend payment of EUR 933 million, which was paid out in 3Q2017.
2 Including EUR 2,691 million which is CRR/CRD IV-compliant (4Q2016: EUR 3,052 million) and EUR 2,446 million to be replaced as capital recognition is subject to
CRR/CRD IV grandfathering rules (4Q2016: EUR 4,654 million).
3 Including EUR 8,995 million which is CRR/CRD IV-compliant (4Q2016: EUR 7,347 million), and EUR 2,091 million to be replaced (by Group instruments) as capital
recognition is subject to CRR/CRD IV grandfathering rules (4Q2016: EUR 2,141 million).
4 Regulatory adjustments include the interpretation of the EBA Q&A published on 3 November 2017.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

291

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

ING Bank NV capital position according to CRR/CRD IV
(fully-loaded)

Shareholders’ equity
Interim profit not included in CET1 capital
Other adjustments

(phased-in)

2017

2016

2017

2016

43,662

43,540

43,662

43,540

–44

-617

–44

-617

–3,043

–3,548

–3,017

–3,661

Regulatory adjustments

–3,087

–4,165

–3,061

–4,278

Available common equity Tier 1 capital

40,576

39,375

40,602

39,262

4,989

6,496

4,989

6,496

53

0

–374

–798

Available Tier 1 capital

45,618

45,871

45,217

44,960

Supplementary capital Tier 2 bonds2

11,086

9,488

11,086

9,488

47

109

–44

–86

56,751

55,467

56,259

54,362

Risk weighted assets

309,287

312,086

309,287

312,086

Common equity Tier 1 ratio

13.12%

12.62%

13.13%

12.58%

Tier 1 ratio

14.75%

14.70%

14.62%

14.41%

Total capital ratio

18.35%

17.77%

18.19%

17.42%

Additional Tier 1 securities1
Regulatory adjustments additional Tier 1

Regulatory adjustments Tier 2
Available Total capital

1 Including EUR 3,123 million which is CRR/CRD IV-compliant (4Q2016 EUR 3,542 million), and EUR 1,866 million to be replaced as capital recognition is subject to
CRR/CRD IV grandfathering rules (4Q2016 EUR 2,954 million).
2 Including EUR 8,995 million which is CRR/CRD IV-compliant (4Q2016 EUR 7,347 million), and EUR 2,091 million to be replaced as capital recognition is subject to
CRR/CRD IV grandfathering rules (4Q2016 EUR 2,141 million).

Regulatory requirements

Capital adequacy and the use of regulatory required capital are based on the guidelines developed by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision (The Basel Committee) and the European Union Directives, as implemented by the Dutch Central Bank (Dutch
Central Bank until 3 November 2014, the ECB thereafter) for supervisory purposes. In 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision issued new solvency and liquidity requirements, which superseded Basel II. The minimum requirements, excluding buffers,
for the common equity Tier 1 ratio is 4.5%, the minimum Tier 1 requirement is 6% and the total capital ratio is 8% of all risk-weighted
assets. Basel III requires Banks to hold a capital of at least 80% of the old Basel I requirements, which was 8% of the RWAs as
calculated with the Basel I methodology. This Basel I floor has been extended until the end of 2017.

ICAAP/SREP process

On a yearly basis ING submits extensive documentation on the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) to its regulator
as prescribed in the CRD IV frameworks. This documentation includes a description of ING’s internal capital models, its risk appetite
framework, an asset quality analysis and a capital planning, both under normal circumstances and in certain stressed scenarios. This
documentation is an important input for the regulator’s Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (SREP) resulting in a letter to ING
Management. The SREP is conducted by the ECB and examines on a regular basis ING’s internal models and processes. The regulatory
2017 guidance indicated that the minimum capital ratios ECB considers adequate for ING Group and ING Bank sufficiently covered by
ING’s own capital standards.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

292

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Ratings
Main credit ratings of ING at 31 December 2017
Standard & Poor’s

Moody’s

Fitch

Rating

Outlook

Rating

Outlook

Rating

Outlook

A-

Stable

Baa1

Stable

A+

Stable

Stable

Aa3

Stable

A+

Stable

ING Groep N.V.
−

long-term

ING Bank N.V.
−

long-term

A+

−

short-term

A-1

P-1

F1

ING’s key credit ratings and outlook are shown in the table above. Each of these ratings reflects only the view of the applicable rating
agency at the time the rating was issued, and any explanation of the significance of a rating may be obtained only from the rating
agency.
A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and each rating should be evaluated independently of any
other rating. There is no assurance that any credit rating will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be
lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agency if, in the rating agency’s judgment, circumstances so warrant. ING
accepts no responsibility for the accuracy or reliability of the ratings.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

293

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Notes to the consolidated annual accounts of ING Group - continued

Authorisation of Consolidated Annual Accounts
Amsterdam, 5 March 2018

The Supervisory Board

The Executive Board

J. (Jeroen) van der Veer, chairman
H.J.M. (Hermann-Josef) Lamberti, vice-chairman
J.P. (Jan Peter) Balkenende
E.F.C.B. (Eric) Boyer de la Giroday
H.W. (Henk) Breukink
M. (Mariana) Gheorghe
R.W.P. (Robert) Reibestein
G.J. (Hans) Wijers

ING Group Annual Report 2017

R.A.J.G. (Ralph) Hamers, CEO and chairman
J.V. (Koos) Timmermans, CFO
S.J.A. (Steven) van Rijswijk, CRO

294

Additional
information

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Parent company statement of financial position
as at 31 December before appropriation of result

2017

2016

43,832

43,711

Fixed assets

43,832

43,711

Receivables from group companies 3

21,101

15,633

in EUR million

Assets
Investments in group companies 1
Investments in participating interests 2

Other assets

331

1,235

Current assets

21,432

16,868

Total assets

65,264

60,579

Equity 4
Share capital
Share premium
Legal and statutory reserves
Other reserves
Unappropriated result

39

39

17,006

16,950

4,385

5,781

24,224

22,372

4,752

4,651

50,406

49,793

Subordinated loans 5

8,306

8,626

Other non-current liabilities 6

5,884

210

14,190

8,836

Other liabilities 6

668

1,950

Current liabilities

668

1,950

65,264

60,579

Total equity
Liabilities

Non-current liabilities

Total equity and liabilities
References relate to the accompanying notes. These form an integral part of the Parent company annual accounts.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

295

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Parent company statement of profit or loss
for the years ended 31 December

2017

in EUR million

2016

Staff expenses 7

5

4

Other expenses 8

27

16

Total expenses

32

20

Interest and other financial income 9

516

498

Valuation results 10

–43

42

Interest and other financial expenses 11

–587

–574

Net interest and other financial income

–114

–34

Result before tax

–146

–54

Taxation
Result after tax

–23

–19

–123

–35

Result from (disposal of) group companies and participating interests after taxation 12

5,028

4,686

Net result

4,905

4,651

References relate to the accompanying notes. These form an integral part of the Parent company annual accounts.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

296

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Parent company statement of changes in equity

in EUR million

Balance as at 1 January 2017

Share
capital
39

Share Revaluation
premium
reserves
16,950

Unrealised revaluations available-for-sale investments and
other revaluations

Legal and
Statutory
reserves

Other
reserves

Unappropriated
result

Total

5,781

22,372

4,651

49,793

–293

Realised gains/losses transferred to the statement of profit
or loss
Changes in cash flow hedge reserve

–90

–90

–514

–514

Realised and unrealised revaluations property in own use

26

Remeasurement of the net defined benefit asset/liability

–29

–894

Total amount recognised directly in equity

–1,820

Net result

–894
26

153
–1,667

Transfer from Unappropriated result

124

Dividends

–1,794
4,752

4,905

26

4,752

3,111

4,527

–4,651

–2,564

Changes in treasury shares
Employee stock option and share plans

56

Changes in the composition of the group and other
changes
39

Changes in individual components are presented in Note 4 ‘Equity’.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

26

–29

Exchange rate differences and other

Balance as at 31 December 2017

–293

297

17,006

–

–2,564

–6

–6

21

77

147

–152

4,385

24,224

–5
4,752

50,406

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Parent company statement of changes in equity - continued

Legal and
Statutory
reserves

Other
reserves

Unappropriated
result

Total

–8

5,717

21,131

4,010

47,832

Unrealised revaluations available-for-sale investments and
other revaluations

–128

208

80

Realised gains/losses transferred to the statement of profit
or loss

128

–274

–146

8

103

111

in EUR million

Balance as at 1 January 2016

Share
capital
928

Share Revaluation
premium
reserves
16,054

Changes in cash flow hedge reserve
Unrealised revaluations property in own use
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit asset/liability
Exchange rate differences and other
Total amount recognised directly in equity

5

5

–65

–65

–232

–232

8

–255

–247

8

–255

Net result

Transfer from Unappropriated result

4,010

Dividends
Changes in treasury shares
Employee stock option and share plans
Changes in the composition of the group and other
changes
Balance as at 31 December 2016

2
–891

891

39

16,950

Changes in individual components are presented in Note 4 ‘Equity’.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

5

298

–

4,651

4,651

4,651

4,404

–4,010

–2,521

–2,521

10

10

75

82

319

–333

5,781

22,372

–14
4,651

49,793

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the parent company annual accounts
amounts in millions of euros, unless stated otherwise

Basis of presentation

ING Groep N.V. is a company domiciled in Amsterdam, the Netherlands and is registered at the Commercial Register of Amsterdam
under number 33231073.
The Parent company annual accounts of ING Groep N.V. are prepared in accordance with the financial reporting requirements included
in Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. In accordance with subsection 8 of section 362, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, the
recognition and measurement principles applied in these Parent company annual accounts are the same as those applied in the
Consolidated annual accounts, reference is made to Note 1 ‘Accounting policies’ of the Consolidated annual accounts. Investments in
group companies are accounted for in the Parent company accounts according to the equity method.
A list containing the information referred to in Section 379 (1), Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code has been filed with the office of the
Commercial Register of Amsterdam, in accordance with Section 379 (5), Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.

Changes in presentation

In order to fully comply with the Resolution formats financial statements (Besluit modellen jaarrekening), the following adjustements
have been made to the Consoidated statement of financial position.
• Assets have been split into two subgroups, ‘Fixed assets’ and ‘Current assets’; and
• Subgroups of ‘Non-current assets’ and ‘Current assets’ have been added.

Parent company equity and related reserves

The total amount of equity in the Parent company annual accounts equals Shareholders’ equity (parent) in the consolidated annual
accounts. Certain components within equity are different as a result of the following presentation differences between the parent
company accounts and consolidated accounts:
• Unrealised revaluations within consolidated group companies, presented in Other reserves - Revaluation reserve in the
consolidated accounts, are presented in the Share of participating interests reserve in the parent company accounts;
• The reserve for cash flow hedges within consolidated group companies, presented in Other reserves – Revaluation reserve in the
consolidated accounts is included in the Share of participating interests reserve, in the parent company accounts on a net basis.
• Foreign currency translation on consolidated group companies, presented in Other reserves - Currency translation reserve in the
consolidated accounts, is presented in the Share of participating interests reserve in the parent company accounts; and
• Revaluations on investment property and certain participations recognised in income and consequently presented in Retained
earnings in the consolidated accounts, is presented in the Share of participating interests reserve in the parent company accounts.
A legal reserve is carried at an amount equal to the share in the results of participating interests since their first inclusion at net asset
value less the amount of profit distributions to which rights have accrued in the interim. Profit distributions which can be repatriated to
the Netherlands without restriction are likewise deducted from the Share of participating interests reserve.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

299

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Parent company annual accounts - continued

Notes to the Parent company statement of financial position
1 Investments in group companies
Investments in group companies

ING Bank

2017

2016

Statement
of financial
Interest
position
held (%)
value

Statement
of financial
Interest
position
held (%)
value

100%

Other

43,662

100%

43,540

170

171

43,832

43,711

Changes in investments in group companies
2017

2016

Opening balance

43,711

41,017

Revaluations

–1,732

–179

5,028

4,237

Results
Dividends

Changes in ING Groep N.V. shares held by group companies
Closing balance

–3,182

–1,354

43,825

43,721

7

–10

43,832

43,711

2 Investments in participating interests
Changes in investments in participating interests
2017

Opening balance

2016

2,153

Transfer to and from Investments

–1,315

Revaluations

178

Disposals

–1,016

Closing balance

–

–

During 2016, ING sold its remaining shares in NN Group.

3 Receivables from group companies
Receivables from group companies
Receivables from group companies

2017

2016

21,101

15,633

21,101

15,633

Receivables from group companies include EUR 8,177 million subordinated loans provided by ING Group N.V. to ING Bank N.V. (2016:
EUR 6,603 million).
As at 31 December 2017 an amount of EUR 13,965 million (2016: EUR 8,566 million) is expected to be settled after more than one year
from the balance sheet date.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

300

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Parent company annual accounts - continued

4 Equity
Equity
2017

Share capital
Share premium
Legal and statutory reserves
Other reserves
Unappropriated result
Total equity

2016

39

39

17,006

16,950

4,385

5,781

24,224

22,372

4,752

4,651

50,406

49,793

Share capital
Share capital
Ordinary shares (par value EUR 0.01)
Number x 1,000

Amount

2017

2016

2017

2016

Authorised share capital

14,729,000

14,729,000

147

147

Unissued share capital

10,843,210

10,850,516

108

108

3,885,790

3,878,484

39

39

Issued share capital

Changes in issued share capital
Ordinary shares
(par value EUR 0.01)

Issued share capital as at 1 January 2016
Issue of shares

Number x
1,000

Amount

3,870,183

928

8,301

Transfer to share premium

2
–891

Issued share capital as at 31 December 2016

3,878,484

Issue of shares

39

7,306

Issued share capital as at 31 December 2017

3,885,790

39

In 2017, ING Groep N.V. issued 7.3 million ordinary shares (2016: 8.3 million depositary receipts for ordinary shares, converted into
ordinary shares per 26 July 2016). These issues were made in order to fund obligations arising from share-based employee incentive
programmes.
During the 2016 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, it was decided to reduce the par value per ordinary share from EUR 0.24 to
EUR 0.01. As a result of this, EUR 891 million is attributed to the Share premium. Reference is made to the ING Group Consolidated
annual accounts, Note 18 ‘Equity’ - Depository receipts for ordinary shares.

Share premium
Changes in share premium
Opening balance
Issue of shares

2017

2016

16,950

16,054

56

Transfer from issued share capital
Closing balance

ING Group Annual Report 2017

5
891

17,006

301

16,950

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Parent company annual accounts - continued

Revaluation reserves
Changes in revaluation reserves
2017

Availablefor-sale
reserve

Cash flow
hedge
reserve

Total

–

–

–

Availablefor-sale
reserve

Cash flow
hedge
reserve

Total

Opening balance
Unrealised revaluations
Realised gains/losses transferred to the statement of profit or loss
Changes in cash flow hedge reserve
Closing balance

Changes in revaluation reserves
2016

Opening balance

–8

Unrealised revaluations

–128

Realised gains/losses transferred to the statement of profit or loss

128

Changes in cash flow hedge reserve
Closing balance

–

–8
–128
128

8

8

–

–

In the course of 2016 the NN Group shares were included in available-for-sale investments and were sold in April 2016. The EUR 128
million reflects unrealised and subsequently realised loss on the sale.

Legal and statutory reserves
Changes in legal and statutory reserves
Share of
participatin
Currency
g interests translation
reserve
reserve

2017

Opening balance

Total

5,781

5,781

Unrealised revaluations available-for-sale investments and other

–293

–293

Realised gains/losses transferred to the statement of profit or loss

–90

–90

–514

–514

Changes in cash flow hedge reserve
Changes in net defined benefit asset/liability remeasurement reserve
Exchange rate differences and other
Changes in composition of the group and other changes

–29
–894

424

Closing balance

ING Group Annual Report 2017

–29
–894
4,385

302

424
–

4,385

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Parent company annual accounts - continued

Changes in legal and statutory reserves
Share of
participatin
Currency
g interests translation
reserve
reserve

2016

Opening balance

5,715

Unrealised revaluations property in own use

2

Total
5,717

5

5

Unrealised revaluations available-for-sale investments and other

208

208

Realised gains/losses transferred to the statement of profit or loss

–274

–274

Changes in cash flow hedge reserve

103

103

Changes in net defined benefit asset/liability remeasurement reserve

–65

–65

–232

–232

Exchange rate differences and other
Changes in composition of the group and other changes
Closing balance

321

–2

319

5,781

–

5,781

The Share of participating interests reserve includes the following components: Reserve for non-distributable retained earnings of
participating interests of EUR 2,527 million (2016: EUR 2,235 million), Revaluation reserve of participating interests of EUR 2,258 million
(2016: EUR 3,917 million) and Net defined benefit asset/liability remeasurement reserve of EUR –400 million (2016: EUR –371 million).
As at 31 December 2017, the Share of participating interests reserve includes an amount of EUR 1,478 million (2016: EUR 1,325 million)
related to the former Stichting Regio Bank and the former Stichting Vakbondsspaarbank SPN that cannot be freely distributed.
Changes in the value of hedging instruments that are designated as net investment hedges, are included in the line Exchange rate
differences and other.

Other reserves
Changes in other reserves
2017

Opening balance

Retained
earnings

Treasury
shares

Total

22,380

–8

22,372

Changes in treasury shares

–7

Transfer from Unappropriated result

4,527

Employee stock option and share plans
Dividends
Changes in the composition of the group and other changes

21

21

–2,564

–2,564

–125

Closing balance

–7
4,527

–125

24,239

–15

24,224

Retained
earnings

Treasury
shares

Total

21,149

–18

21,131

Changes in other reserves
2016

Opening balance
Changes in treasury shares

10

Transfer from Unappropriated result

4,010

Employee stock option and share plans
Dividends
Changes in the composition of the group and other changes

75

75

–2,521

–2,521

–333

Closing balance

10
4,010

22,380

–333
–8

22,372

The Revaluation reserve, Share of participating interests reserve and Currency translation reserve cannot be freely distributed.
Retained earnings can be freely distributed, except for an amount equal to the negative balance in each of the components of the
Revaluation reserve, Share participating interests reserve and the Currency translation reserve. Unrealised gains and losses on
derivatives, other than those used in cash flow hedges, are presented in the statement of profit or loss and are therefore part of
Retained earnings and are not included in Share of participating interests reserve.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

303

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Parent company annual accounts - continued

The total amount of non-distributable reserves, in accordance with the financial reporting requirements per Part 9 of Book 2 of the
Dutch Civil Code, is EUR 7,678 million (2016: EUR 7,379 million).
Reference is made to Note 18 ‘Equity’ and the Capital Management section in the Consolidated annual accounts for additional
information, including restrictions with respect to dividend and repayment of capital.
Change in treasury shares
Amount

Number

2017

2016

2017

2016

–8

–18

600,634

1,464,025

Purchased/sold

–7

10

343,623

–863,391

Closing balance

–15

–8

944,257

600,634

Opening balance

5 Subordinated loans
Subordinated loans
Statement of financial
position value
2017

2016

Interest rate

Year of issue

Due date

Notional amount in original currency

1.625%

2017

26 September 2029

EUR

1,000

4.000%

2017

14 September 2032

USD

100

83

4.250%

2017

23 June 2032

USD

160

133

1.150%

2017

14 June 2029

JPY

12,000

89

1.100%

2017

31 May 2027

JPY

10,000

74

3.000%

2017

11 April 2028

EUR

1,000

1,058

2.500%

2017

15 February 2029

EUR

750

742

6.875%

2016

Perpetual

USD

1,000

829

948

6.500%

2015

Perpetual

USD

1,250

1,036

1,177

6.000%

2015

Perpetual

USD

1,000

831

943

9.000%

2008

Perpetual

EUR

10

10

10

6.375%

2007

Perpetual

USD

1,045

872

975

6.125%

2005

Perpetual

USD

700

584

662

Variable

2004

Perpetual

EUR

555

553

551

6.200%

2003

Perpetual

USD

500

Variable

2003

Perpetual

EUR

430

7.200%

2002

Perpetual

USD

1,100

Variable

2000

31 December 2030

USD

1,500

984

470
428

427
1,041
1,422

8,306

8,626

In February 2017, ING Groep N.V. issued EUR 750 million securities that qualify as subordinated CRD IV Tier 2 notes with coupon of
2.50% until 24 February 2024. In September 2017, ING Groep N.V. issued EUR 1,000 million securities that qualify as subordinated CRD
IV Tier 2 notes with coupon of 1.625% until 26 September 2024. In April 2017 ING Groep N.V. issued EUR 1,000 million subordinated
CRD IV Tier 2 securities replacing EUR 1,000 million subordinated Tier 2 securities issued by ING Bank N.V. In 2017 ING Groep N.V. issued
other private placements with total notional amounts of JPN 22,000 million and USD 260 million.
In March, and October 2017 respectively, ING Groep N.V. redeemed the USD 1,100 million 7.20% perpetual and the USD 500 million
6.2% Perpetual Debt Securities. In September 2017 ING redeemed the USD 1,500 million subordinated loan with ING Capital Funding
Trust III.
Reference is made to the ING Group Consolidated annual accounts, Note 17 ‘Subordinated loans’ and Note 18 ‘Equity’.
The Subordinated loans rank subordinated to the Other liabilities in a winding-up of ING Group.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

304

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Parent company annual accounts - continued

6 Other liabilities
Other liabilities by type
Debenture loans
Derivatives from group companies
Non-Current Other Liabilities

2017

2016

5,881

153

3

57

5,884

210

Debenture loans

1,749

Amounts owed to group companies

367

35

Other amounts owed and accrued liabilities

300

162

Derivatives from group companies
Current Other Liabilities

1

4

668

1,950

2017

2016

Debenture loans
Interest rate

Year of issue

Due date

3.950%

2017

29 March 2027

1,246

3.150%

2017

29 March 2022

1,246

2.843%

2017

29 March 2022

0.750%

2017

9 March 2022

1.375%

2017

11 January 2028

970

4.699%

2007

1 June 2035

156

4.750%

2007

31 May 2017

820
1,443
153
1,749
5,881

1,902

The number of debentures held by group companies as at 31 December 2017 is nil with a statement of financial position value of
nil(2016: nil with a statement of financial position value of nil).
Amounts owed to group companies by remaining term
2017

Within 1 year

2016

367

35

367

35

2017

2016

The interest rate on the Amounts owed to group companies as at 31 December 2017 is 0.0% (2016: 0.0%).
Other amounts owed and accrued liabilities are payable within one year.
Derivatives from group companies by remaining term
Within 1 year

1

4

More than 5 years

3

57

4

61

2017

2016

Notes to the Parent company statement of profit or loss
7 Staff expenses
Staff expenses
Pension costs and other staff related benefit costs

ING Group Annual Report 2017

305

5

4

5

4

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Parent company annual accounts - continued

Remuneration of Senior Management, Executive Board and Supervisory Board

The information on share-based payment plans and remuneration of the members of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board
is included in the Consolidated annual accounts. Reference is made to Note 49 ‘Related parties’ (page 220 up to and including page
222) and the Renumeration report (page 88 up to and including page 99).

8 Other expenses
Other expenses
2017

External advisory fees

2016

3

1

24

15

27

16

2017

2016

Other

9 Interest and other financial income
Interest and other financial income
Interest income

516

498

516

498

Included in Interest and other financial income is EUR 514 million (2016: EUR 478 million) related to group companies.

10 Valuation results

Included in Valuations results, are valuation results on non-trading derivatives related to warrants on the shares of Voya and NN
Group amounting to EUR –52 million (2016: EUR 33 million).

11 Interest and other financial expenses
Interest and other financial expenses
Interest expenses

2017

2016

–583

–574

Other financial expenses

–4
–587

–574

Included in Interest and other financial expenses is EUR –51 million (2016: EUR –80 million) related to group companies.

12 Result from group companies and participating interests after taxation
Result from group companies and participating interests after taxation
Result of group companies

2017

2016

5,028

4,237

5,028

4,686

Result on disposal of participating interests
-

NN Group

ING Group Annual Report 2017

449

306

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Parent company annual accounts - continued

13 Other
Fees for audit and non-audit services

Reference is made to the ING Group Consolidated annual accounts, Note 26 ‘Other operating expenses’ for disclosures related to fees
for audit and non-audit services.

Guarantees

ING Group has issued certain guarantees as participant in collective arrangements of national banking funds and as a participant in
required collective guarantee schemes. For example, ING Groep N.V. provided a guarantee to the German Deposit Guarantee Fund
(‘Einlagensicherungsfonds’ or ESF) under section 5 (10) of the by-laws of this fund, where ING Groep N.V. indemnifies the Association of
German Banks Berlin against any losses it might incur as result of actions taken with respect to ING Germany. The ESF is a voluntary
collective guarantee scheme for retail savings and deposits in excess of EUR 100,000.
As at 31 December 2017, ING Groep N.V. guarantees various US dollar debentures (that mature between 2023 and 2036) which were
issued by a subsidiary of Voya Financial Inc. In the Shareholder’s agreement between ING Groep N.V. and Voya Financial Inc. it is
agreed that the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the debentures will be reduced from EUR 167 million as at 31 December
2017 (2016: EUR 404 million; 2015: EUR 436 million) to no more than EUR 83 million as at 31 December 2018, and no more than EUR
nil at 31 December 2019.
Per the Shareholder’s agreement, the decrease in the aggregate outstanding principal shall be deemed to have been reduced to the
extent of collateral deposited by Voya Financial Inc. As at 31 December 2017, EUR 193 million (2016: EUR 123 million) was pledged to
ING Groep N.V. as collateral.

Claim agreements

In the ordinary course of business we have entered into a number of agreements whereby we are provided and being provided
indemnifications related to sale of our past businesses and agreements whereby we made detailed arrangements regarding
allocation and handling of claims.

Fiscal unity

ING Groep N.V. forms a ﬁscal unity with several Dutch banking entities for corporation tax purposes. ING Groep N.V., ING Bank N.V. and
its banking subsidiaries that form part of the ﬁscal unity are jointly and severally liable for taxation payable by the ﬁscal unity.
Settlements of corporate income tax paid or received are executed by ING Bank N.V.

14 Proposed appropriation of results

For 2017, the Executive Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, has proposed a cash dividend of EUR 0.67 per ordinary
share of EUR 0.01. In August 2017, an interim dividend of EUR 0.24 per ordinary share was paid. Therefore, a final dividend of EUR 0.43
per ordinary share remains. The final dividend will be paid entirely in cash after ratification of the proposal by the General Meeting of
Shareholders.
Proposed appropriation of result
2017

Net result

4,905

Addition to reserves pursuant to Article 37 (4) of the Articles of Association

2,302

At the disposal of the General Meeting of Shareholders pursuant to Article 37 (5) of the Articles of Association

2,603

Dividend of EUR 0.67 per ordinary share

15 Subsequent events

On 29 January 2018 ING announced it had reached agreement to acquire a 75% stake in Payvision. Payvision is a Netherlands based
payments service provider with a total estimated value of EUR 360 million. The transaction is not expected to have material impact on
ING's CET1 ratio.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

307

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Notes to the Parent company annual accounts - continued

Authorisation of Parent company annual accounts
Amsterdam, 5 March 2018

The Supervisory Board

The Executive Board

J. (Jeroen) van der Veer, chairman
H.J.M. (Hermann-Josef) Lamberti, vice-chairman
J.P. (Jan Peter) Balkenende
E.F.C.B. (Eric) Boyer de la Giroday
H.W. (Henk) Breukink
M. (Mariana) Gheorghe
R.W.P. (Robert) Reibestein
G.J. (Hans) Wijers

ING Group Annual Report 2017

R.A.J.G. (Ralph) Hamers, CEO and chairman
J.V. (Koos) Timmermans, CFO
S.J.A. (Steven) van Rijswijk, CRO

308

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Independent auditor’s report

Independent auditor’s report
To: the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and the Supervisory Board of ING Groep N.V.
Report on the audit of the annual accounts 2017 included in the annual report
Our opinion

In our opinion:
• the accompanying consolidated annual accounts give a true and fair view of the financial position of ING
Groep N.V. as at 31 December 2017 and of its result and its cash flows for the year then ended, in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS)
and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code;
• the accompanying parent company annual accounts give a true and fair view of the financial position of ING
Groep N.V. as at 31 December 2017 and of its result for the year then ended in accordance with Part 9 of
Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.

What we have audited

We have audited the annual accounts 2017 of ING Groep N.V. (the ‘Company’ or ‘ING Group’) based in
Amsterdam. The annual accounts include the consolidated annual accounts and the parent company annual
accounts.
The consolidated annual accounts comprise:
1 The consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2017.
2 The following consolidated statements for 2017: the statement of profit or loss, the statements of
comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows.
3 The notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The parent company annual accounts comprise:
1 The parent company statement of financial position as at 31 December 2017.
2 The parent company statement of profit or loss and statement of changes in equity for 2017.
3 The notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory information.

Basis for our opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our
responsibilities under those standards are further described in the ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the
annual accounts’ section of our report.
We are independent of ING Groep N.V. in accordance with the EU Regulation on specific requirements
regarding statutory audits of public-interest entities, the Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties (Wta, Audit
Firms Supervision Act), the Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assuranceopdrachten (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and
other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the
Verordening gedrags- en beroepsregels accountants (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics).
We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

309

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Audit approach
Summary

Materiality
• Group materiality of EUR 300 million
• 4.1% of profit before taxation from continuing operations

GROUP AUDIT
• 87% of total assets covered by audit procedures performed by component auditors
• 86% of profit before taxation from continuing operations covered by audit procedures performed by component
auditors

KEY AUDIT MATTERS
• Estimation uncertainty with respect to the loan impairment losses
• Estimation uncertainty with respect to the provision of a legal matter
• Risk of inappropriate access or changes to information technology and systems
• Estimation of the impact of IFRS 9 accounting standard

UNQUALIFIED OPINION
Materiality

Based on our professional judgement we determined the materiality for the annual accounts as a whole at
EUR 300 million (2016: EUR 240 million). The materiality is determined with reference to the profit before
taxation from continuing operations. Materiality as percentage of profit before taxation from continuing
operations remained stable at 4.1% (2016: 4.1%).
We consider profit before taxation from continuing operations as the most appropriate benchmark based on
our assessment of the general information needs of users of the annual accounts. We believe that profit
before taxation from continuing operations is a relevant metric for assessment of the financial performance of
the Company. Given the relatively high balance sheet total and gross income, we have not used alternative
benchmarks in determining materiality. We have also taken into account misstatements and/or possible
misstatements that in our opinion are material for the users of the annual accounts for qualitative reasons.
We agreed with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board that misstatements in excess of EUR 15 million
which are identified during the audit, would be reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that in our
view must be reported on qualitative grounds.

Scope of the group audit

ING Group is at the head of a group of components. The financial information of this group is included in the
consolidated annual accounts of ING Group. ING Group is structured in segments: Retail Netherlands, Retail
Belgium, Retail Germany, Retail Other, Wholesale Banking and Corporate Line Banking, covering different
countries.
Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are responsible for directing, supervising and
performing the group audit. In this respect, we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures
to be carried out for group entities. Our group audit mainly focused on significant group entities (‘components’).
These components are either individually financially significant due to their relative size compared to ING
Group or because we assigned a significant risk of material misstatement to one or more account balances of
these entities. In addition, we included certain group entities in the scope of our group audit in order to arrive at
a sufficient coverage over all relevant significant account balances.
Applying these scoping criteria led to a full or specific scope audit for 36 components, in total covering 13
countries. This resulted in a coverage performed by component auditors of 86% of profit before taxation from
continuing operations and 87% of total assets. For the remaining 14% of profit before taxation from continuing
operations and 13% of total assets procedures were performed at the group level including analytical
procedures in order to corroborate our assessment that the risk of material misstatements in the residual
population is remote.
All components in scope for group reporting are audited by KPMG member firms. We sent detailed
instructions to all component auditors, covering significant areas including the relevant risks of material
misstatement and set out the information required to be reported to the group audit team. We visited
component locations in the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, United Kingdom and Singapore, where we
performed reviews of the audit files from local auditors. We also performed an off-site file review of the work
performed by the component auditor in Turkey. For all components in scope of the group audit, we held
conference calls and/or physical meetings with the auditors of the components. During these visits, meetings
and calls, the planning, risk assessment, procedures performed, findings and observations reported to the

ING Group Annual Report 2017

310

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

group auditor were discussed in more detail and any further work deemed necessary by the group audit team
was then performed.
The group audit team has set component materiality levels, which ranged from EUR 25 million to EUR 90
million, based on the mix of size and financial statement risk profile of the components within the group to
reduce the aggregation risk to an acceptable level. The consolidation of the group, the disclosures in the
annual accounts and certain accounting topics that are performed at group level are audited by the group audit
team. The accounting matters on which audit procedures are performed by the group audit team include, but
are not limited to, goodwill impairment testing, equity, group financing and certain elements of: the loan loss
provisioning process, corporate income tax for the Dutch fiscal unity and claims and litigations.
By performing the procedures mentioned above at components, together with additional procedures at group
level, we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence about the group’s financial
information to provide an opinion about the consolidated annual accounts.

Total assets

Profit before taxation from continuing operations

87%

13%

86%

14%

Covered by audit
procedures performed by
component auditors

Covered by additional
procedures at group level

Covered by audit
procedures performed by
component auditors

Covered by additional
procedures at group level

Our key audit matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit
of the annual accounts. We have communicated the key audit matters to the Audit Committee of the
Supervisory Board. The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the annual accounts as a whole and in forming
our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Last year, we reported ‘Estimation uncertainty with respect to the digital transformation restructuring provisions’
as a key audit matter. The estimation uncertainty related primarily to the initial recognition and measurement of
the restructuring provisions as per 31 December 2016. Based on the observations following our audit of the
2017 annual accounts we do not consider the subsequent measurement of the restructuring provision to be a
key audit matter. We did not consider the SME derivatives remediation program a key audit matter this year
given the status of the program.

Estimation uncertainty with respect to the impairment losses on loans and advances to customers and banks
Description
ING Group’s portfolio of loans and advances to customers and loans and advances to banks amounts to
EUR 574.5 billion and EUR 28.8 billion, respectively, as at 31 December 2017. These loans and advances are
measured at amortised cost, less a provision for loan losses (EUR 4.6 billion). Several aspects of the accounting for
loan losses require significant judgement of management, such as the identification of loans that are deteriorating, the
assessment of objective evidence for impairment, the valuation of collateral received and the estimation of the
recoverable amount.
Our response
Our audit approach included testing both the effectiveness of internal controls around determining loan loss provisions
and substantive audit procedures.
Our procedures over internal controls focused on the governance over the process, controls around the accuracy of
loan and collateral data, the determination of risk ratings and the process for identifying arrears. In our audit, we also
considered the process around the data flows through the information systems, application controls and calculations,
and the implementation and validation of the credit risk models used to calculate the collective loan loss provisions, the
analysis of the collective provision results, and reviews performed on impaired loans that have been individually
assessed.
We assessed collective impairment methodologies, focusing on the most significant portfolios from a size and credit
risk perspective. With the assistance of our financial risk management specialists, data analysis specialists, and
information technology specialists, we have evaluated the models, assumptions, data, and information systems used
by ING Group for the collective provisions. We have assessed the methodology and framework designed and
implemented by ING Group to assess whether the collective provision model outcomes should be adjusted to better
reflect the current circumstances of the portfolio performance and economic conditions.
With the assistance of corporate finance specialists and real estate valuation specialists we have tested the
methodologies, cash flows, and collateral values used in individual assessments of provisions for impaired loans,
including management judgements made during the process such as various recovery scenarios and probabilities of
those scenarios occurring.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

311

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Estimation uncertainty with respect to the impairment losses on loans and advances to customers and bank
Our observation
We have reported to ING Group’s Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board our observations with respect to the loan
loss provisioning and accordingly amended our audit approach. Overall, based on the procedures performed, we
assess that the impairment losses on loans and advances to customers and loans and advances to banks are fairly
stated in the annual accounts.

Estimation uncertainty with respect to the provision of a legal matter
Description
As disclosed in Note 45, ING Bank N.V. is subject of criminal investigations by Dutch authorities regarding various
requirements related to the client onboarding, money laundering and corrupt practices. ING Groep N.V. has also
received related information requests by the US authorities (hereafter ‘the investigations’).
Management concluded under IFRS that it is more likely than not that a present obligation per 31 December 2017
exists and that an outflow of resources is probable. However, management was not able to estimate reliably the
possible timing, scope or amounts of any fines, penalties and/or other outcome, which could be significant.
Our response
Our audit procedures included the testing of controls over the evaluation and measurement of potential obligations
arising from the legal matter. We considered whether an obligation exists, the appropriateness of provisioning and/or
disclosure based on the facts and circumstances available.
In order to assess the facts and circumstances with respect to the investigations, we assessed underlying
documentation of internal investigations performed and other relevant documents. We evaluated and discussed
internal audit reports in relation to compliance and inspected correspondence with regulators. We also obtained and
inspected external lawyers’ letters, legal opinions, read minutes from relevant committees, attended audit committee
meetings and supervisory board meetings where this topic was discussed. We inquired with senior management and
interviewed ING Group’s legal counsel and external lawyers of ING Group. We have involved forensic specialists to
assist us in these procedures. We also assessed the adequacy of the disclosure regarding the investigations as
included in Note 45.
Our observation
Overall, the nature and extent of disclosure in Note 45 of this legal matter in the annual accounts is adequate.

Risk of inappropriate access or changes to information technology and systems
Description
ING Group is dependent on its IT infrastructure for the reliability and continuity of its operations and financial reporting.
ING Group continued to make efforts to improve IT systems and processes to increase the efficiency and effectiveness
of the IT infrastructure and the reliability and continuity of the IT processing as well as to remediate deficiencies
identified in the previous year.
Our response
Our audit approach relies to a large extent on automated controls and therefore procedures are designed to test
access and change management controls over IT systems. Inappropriate access to an application or infrastructure
could impact an automated control and therefore compromise financial data. Given the IT technical characteristics of
this part of the audit, IT audit specialists are an integral part of our engagement team.
IT audit specialists assessed the reliability and continuity of the IT environment, insofar as needed within the scope of
our audit of the annual accounts. We examined the framework of governance over ING Group’s IT organisations and
the IT general controls, access to programs and data, program changes and IT operations, including compensating
controls where those were required.
Our areas of focus related to the change management, logical access management and segregation of duties controls.
Management has put efforts to remediate identified control deficiencies. We tested the design and operating
effectiveness of user access management controls of the IT systems relevant for financial reporting. For those control
deficiencies that were not remediated, we tested compensating controls that were not impacted by ineffective controls.
For certain deficiencies during the period of remediation, we substantively assessed the access to determine whether
inappropriate access occurred and whether changes made were appropriate.
Our observation
The combination of the tests of the controls and the substantive tests performed provided sufficient evidence to enable
us to rely on the continued operation of the IT systems for the purposes of our audit.

Estimation of the impact of IFRS 9 accounting standard
Description
ING is adopting IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ from 1 January 2018 and included an estimate of the financial impact of
the change in accounting standard in accordance with IAS 8 ‘Accounting Policies, Change in Accounting Estimates
and Errors’ as set out in Note 1. This disclosure requires judgement and management estimates regarding the impact
of IFRS 9 on the classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities and the impairment of financial
assets.
Our response
Our audit approach included testing both the effectiveness of internal controls around management’s process for
disclosing the estimated impact of adopting IFRS 9 as well as substantive audit procedures regarding the disclosure
required by IAS 8.
We considered the appropriateness of key technical decisions and judgements made in determining the estimate. Our
procedures over internal controls included testing controls around management’s classification and measurement
processes. We also focused on internal controls around the expected credit loss methodology and tested ING’s
process for reflecting multiple macroeconomic scenarios, including involvement of economic specialists. We
considered the process around the implementation and internal validation of the models used to estimate the impact of
the IFRS 9 expected credit losses, which was concentrated on the most significant models from an exposure
perspective.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

312

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Estimation of the impact of IFRS 9 accounting standard
Our response
We evaluated the disclosure against the criteria of IAS 8. As part of our substantive procedures we independently
tested the business model and solely payment of principal and interest criteria over a sample of financial instruments.
In addition, with the assistance of our financial risk management specialists, we have evaluated the significant models,
assumptions and data used by ING Group for the expected credit loss measurements. Furthermore, we have assessed
the methodology and framework designed and implemented by ING Group as to whether the provision model
outcomes and stage allocations appear reasonable and reflective of ING’s forecasts of future economic conditions.
Our observation
ING has almost completed the implementation of IFRS 9. The main procedures that are in the process of being
finalised are the transfer of project activities to the business, further embedding internal controls in their processes and
the completion of the remaining model validations. Overall, we conclude that the IAS 8 disclosures accurately reflect
ING’s implementation status and estimated impact of adopting the new standard.

Report on the Other information included in the annual report

In addition to the annual accounts and our auditor’s report thereon, the annual report contains other
information that consists of:
• The Report of the Executive Board.
• The Corporate Governance Report.
• Other and additional information.
Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude that the Other information:
• is consistent with the annual accounts and does not contain material misstatements;
• contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
We have read the Other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained through our audit
of the annual accounts or otherwise, we have considered whether the Other information contains material
misstatements.
By performing these procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code
and the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of the procedures performed is substantially less than the scope of
those performed in our audit of the annual accounts.
The Executive Board is responsible for the preparation of the Other information, including the information as
required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.

Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
Engagement

We were engaged by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders as auditor of ING Group on 11 May 2015,
as of the audit for the year 2016 and have operated as statutory auditor ever since that financial year.

No prohibited non-audit services

We have not provided prohibited non-audit services as referred to in Article 5(1) of the EU Regulation on
specific requirements regarding statutory audits of public-interest entities.

Services rendered

For the period to which our statutory audit relates, in addition to this audit, we have provided agreed-upon
procedures and assurance engagements to ING Groep N.V. or its controlled undertakings. These services
were rendered for the benefit of external users, largely driven by regulatory compliance.

Description of responsibilities regarding the annual accounts
Responsibilities of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board for the annual accounts

The Executive Board is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the annual accounts in
accordance with EU-IFRS and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, the Executive Board is
responsible for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the
annual accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
As part of the preparation of the annual accounts, the Executive Board is responsible for assessing the
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting frameworks mentioned, the
Executive Board should prepare the annual accounts using the going concern basis of accounting unless the
Executive Board either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative
but to do so.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

313

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

The Executive Board should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the annual accounts.
The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.

Our responsibilities for the audit of the annual accounts

Our objective is to plan and perform the audit engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and
appropriate audit evidence for our opinion.
Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not
detect all material errors and fraud during our audit.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
annual accounts. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the
evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located at the website of
the Koninklijke Nederlandse Beroepsorganisatie van Accountants (NBA, Royal Netherlands Institute of
Chartered Accountants) at: http://www.nba.nl/ENG_oob_01
This description forms part of our auditor’s report.
Amstelveen, 5 March 2018
KPMG Accountants N.V.
M.A. Hogeboom RA

ING Group Annual Report 2017

314

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Articles of Association – Appropriation of results
Appropriation of results

The result is appropriated pursuant to Article 37 of the Articles of Association of ING Groep N.V. The Company may make distributions
to the extent permitted by law after adoption of the annual accounts by the Executive and Supervisory Boards. The Executive Board
subject to approval of the Supervisory Board, determines what part of the result remaining after application of the provisions of article
37.3 is to be appropriated to reserves and that the remaining part of the result shall be at the disposal of the General Meeting of
Shareholders. The General Meeting of the Shareholders, on a motion of the Executive Board with approval of the Supervisory Board
may resolve to distribute from the reserves to ordinary shareholders a dividend or other form of distribution to the registered
Shareholder on a date determined by the Executive Board and approved by the Supervisory Board.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

315

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk factors
Any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on the business activities, financial condition, results of operations
and prospects of ING. Additional risks of which the Company is not presently aware, or that are currently viewed as less material than the
risks described below, could also affect the business operations of ING and have a material adverse effect on ING’s business activities,
financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The market price of ING shares or other securities could decline due to any of
those risks including the risks described below, and investors could lose all or part of their investments. The sequence in which the risk
factors are presented below is not indicative of their likelihood of occurrence or the potential magnitude of their financial consequences.

Risks related to financial conditions, market environment and general economic trends
Because we are a financial services company conducting business on a global basis, our revenues and earnings are
affected by the volatility and strength of the economic, business, liquidity, funding and capital markets environments
specific to the geographic regions in which we conduct business. The ongoing turbulence and volatility of such factors
have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the profitability , solvency and liquidity of our business.
Factors such as interest rates, securities prices, credit spreads, liquidity spreads, exchange rates, consumer spending, changes in client
behaviour, business investment, real estate values and private equity valuations, government spending, inflation or deflation, the
volatility and strength of the capital markets, political events and trends, and terrorism all impact the business and economic
environment and, ultimately, our solvency, liquidity and the amount and profitability of business we conduct in a specific geographic
region. We are particularly exposed to financial, economic, market and political conditions in Germany and the Benelux countries,
from which we derive a significant portion of our revenues. In an economic downturn characterised by higher unemployment, lower
family income, lower corporate earnings, higher corporate and private debt defaults, lower business investments and lower consumer
spending, the demand for banking products is usually adversely affected and ING’s reserves and provisions typically would increase,
resulting in overall lower earnings. Securities prices, real estate values and private equity valuations may also be adversely impacted,
and any such losses would be realised through profit and loss and shareholders’ equity. We also offer a number of financial products
that expose us to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates, securities prices, corporate and private default rates, the value of
real estate assets, exchange rates and credit spreads.

See also ‘—Interest rate volatility and other interest rate changes may adversely affect our profitability’, ‘—Continued risk of
resurgence of turbulence and ongoing volatility in the financial markets and the economy generally have adversely affected, and may
continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition and results of operations’, and ‘—Market conditions observed over the
past few years may increase the risk of loans being impaired. We are exposed to declining property values on the collateral supporting
residential and commercial real estate lending’ below.
In case one or more of the factors mentioned above adversely affects the profitability of our business, this might also result, among
other things, in the following:
• reserve and provisions inadequacies, which could ultimately be realised through profit and loss and shareholders’ equity;
• the write-down of tax assets impacting net results and/or equity;
• impairment expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, impacting net results;
• movements in risk weighted assets for the determination of required capital;
• changes in credit valuation adjustments and debt valuation adjustments; and/or
• additional costs related to maintenance of higher liquidity buffers and/or collateral placements.
Shareholders’ equity and our net result may be significantly impacted by turmoil and volatility in the worldwide financial markets.
Negative developments in financial markets and/or economies and changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate have
in the past had and may in the future have a material adverse impact on shareholders’ equity and net result, including as a result of
the potential consequences listed above. See ‘— Continued risk of resurgence of turbulence and ongoing volatility in the financial
markets and the economy generally have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition
and results of operations’ and ‘— We operate in highly regulated industries. Changes in laws and/ or regulations governing financial
services or financial institutions, the application of such laws and/or regulations on the consequences of any non-compliance with
such laws and/or regulations may reduce our profitability’ below.

Continued risk of resurgence of turbulence and ongoing volatility in the financial markets and the economy generally
have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition and results of
operations.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

316

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk factors - continued

General

Our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally.
In 2008 and through early 2009, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely
affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. Concerns over the slow
economic recovery, the European sovereign debt crisis, the outcome of the negotiations between the UK and the EU following the UK
referendum on EU membership (Brexit), the potential exit of other countries from the eurozone, increasing political instability in
Europe, unemployment, the availability and cost of credit, credit spreads, quantitative easing within the eurozone through bond
repurchases, the ECB’s targeted longer-term refinancing operation (‘TLTRO’), potential changes in US laws, regulations and policies
governing financial regulation, foreign trade and foreign investment following the inauguration of a new US administration in January
2017, the level of US national debt and the US housing market, inflation/deflation levels, energy costs and geopolitical tensions around
North Korea all have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets in recent years.
These conditions have generally resulted in greater volatility, widening of credit spreads and overall shortage of liquidity and
tightening of financial markets throughout the world. These concerns have since expanded to include a broad range of fixed income
securities, including those rated investment grade and especially the sovereign debt of some EEA countries and the US, the
international credit and interbank money markets generally, and a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes,
such as public and private equity, and real estate sectors. As a result of these and other factors, sovereign governments across the
globe, including in regions where the Group operates, have also experienced budgetary and other financial difficulties, which have
resulted in changes in economic policy including the implementation of austerity measures, downgrades in credit rating by credit
agencies, planned or implemented bail-out measures and, on occasion, civil unrest (for further details regarding sovereign debt
concerns, see ‘ —US Sovereign Credit Rating’ and ‘ — European sovereign debt crisis and the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the
European Union below). As a result, the market for fixed income instruments has experienced decreased liquidity, increased price
volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probability of default. In addition, the confluence of these and other factors has
resulted in volatile foreign exchange markets. Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and may be hard to dispose of.
International equity markets have also continued to experience heightened volatility and turmoil, with issuers, including ourselves,
that have exposure to the real estate, mortgage, private equity and credit markets particularly affected. These events and market
upheavals, including high levels of volatility, have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of
operations, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and extensive real estate activities around the world.
In addition, the confidence of customers in financial institutions is being tested. Consumer confidence in financial institutions may, for
example, decrease due to our or our competitors’ failure to communicate to customers the terms of, and the benefits to customers of,
complex or high-fee financial products. Reduced confidence could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations,
including withdrawal of deposits. Because a significant percentage of our customer deposit base is originated via Internet banking, a
loss of customer confidence may result in a rapid withdrawal of deposits over the Internet.
The aforementioned impacts have arisen primarily as a result of valuation and impairment issues arising in connection with our
investments in real estate (both in and outside the US) and private equity, exposures to European sovereign debt and to US mortgagerelated structured investment products, including sub-prime and ‘Alt-A’ residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities,
collateralised debt obligations and collateralised loan obligations, private equity and other investments. In many cases, the markets
for investments and instruments have been and remain highly illiquid, and issues relating to counterparty credit ratings and other
factors have exacerbated pricing and valuation uncertainties. Valuation of such investments and instruments is a complex process
involving the consideration of market transactions, pricing models, management judgment and other factors, and is also impacted by
external factors, such as underlying mortgage default rates, interest rates, rating agency actions and property valuations. Although
we continue to monitor our exposures, there can be no assurance that we will not experience further negative impacts to our
shareholders’ equity, solvency position, liquidity, financial condition or profit and loss accounts in future periods.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

317

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk factors - continued

European sovereign debt crisis and the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union

Market concerns over the direct and indirect exposure of European banks and insurers to the sovereign debt of several EU Member
States since 2010 have resulted in a widening of credit spreads and increased costs of funding for some European financial
institutions. The sovereign debt crisis has also highlighted issues relating to the strength of the banking sector in Europe and the euro.
In addition, risks and ongoing concerns about the crisis in the Italian banking sector and its potential spill-over effect into other
Member States, deterioration of the political situation in Turkey, as well as the possible default by one or more Member States could
have a detrimental impact on the global economic recovery, sovereign and non-sovereign debt in these countries and the financial
condition of European and other financial institutions, including us. Additionally, the possibility of capital market volatility spreading
through a highly integrated and interdependent banking system remains elevated. In the event of any default or similar event with
respect to a sovereign issuer, some financial institutions may suffer significant losses, following which they would require additional
capital, and such capital may not be available. We are exposed to the risk of downgrades of European sovereign ratings or corporate
ratings, because they may affect our financial costs and, as a result, our profitability. Market disruptions in Europe related to sovereign
debt and the banking sector continue to be a threat to global capital markets and remains a challenge to global financial stability. In
the event of any default or similar event with respect to a sovereign issuer, some financial institutions may suffer significant losses,
following which they would require additional capital, which may not be available. Market and economic disruptions stemming from
the crisis in Europe also have affected, and may continue to affect, consumer confidence levels and spending, bankruptcy rates, levels
of incurrence of, and default on, consumer debt and home prices, among other factors. There can be no assurance that market
disruptions in Europe, including the increased cost of funding for certain government and financial institutions, will not spread, nor can
there be any assurance that future assistance packages will be available or, even if provided, will be sufficient to stabilise the affected
countries and markets in Europe or elsewhere. To the extent uncertainty regarding the economic recovery continues to negatively
impact consumer confidence and consumer credit factors, our business and results of operations could be significantly and adversely
impacted. Additionally, extreme prolonged market events, such as the recent global credit crisis, could cause us to incur significant
losses and may lead to USD funding shortages for EU Banks.
In addition, although the UK is not a member state of the eurozone, the decision of the UK to leave the EU remains a major political
and economic event and may further destabilize the eurozone. The outcome of the negotiations between the UK and the EU remains
highly uncertain as does its economic and operational impact on the Group and its counterparties. Concerns regarding other Member
States’ potential exit from the EU or the eurozone also have emerged following the ‘Brexit’ referendum. The possible exit from the EU
and/or the eurozone of one or more European states and/or the replacement of the euro by one or more successor currencies could
create significant uncertainties regarding the enforceability and valuation of euro-denominated contracts to which we (or our
counterparties) are a party and thereby materially and adversely affect our and/or our counterparties’ liquidity, financial condition
and operations. Such uncertainties may include the risk that (i) an obligation that was expected to be paid in euros is redenominated
into a new currency (which may not be easily converted into other currencies without incurring significant cost), (ii) currencies in some
Member States may depreciate relative to others, (iii) former EU and/or eurozone Member States may impose capital controls that
would make it complicated or illegal to move capital out of such countries, and/or (iv) some courts (in particular, courts in countries
that have left the EU and/or the eurozone) may not recognise and/or enforce claims denominated in euros (and/or in any replacement
currency). These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, reduced business and consumer confidence and/or continued high
unemployment, have negatively affected the economy of main geographic regions where we conduct our business. Our results of
operations, liquidity position, capital position and investment portfolio are exposed to these risks and may be adversely affected as a
result.

US Sovereign Credit Rating

In 2011, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (‘S&P’) lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the US from AAA to AA+. Although
other ratings agencies have not similarly lowered the long-term sovereign credit rating of the US, they have put that credit rating on
watch. Amid the lingering uncertainty over the long-term outlook for the fiscal position and the future economic performance of the
US within the global economy and potential future budgetary restrictions in the US, there continues to be a perceived risk of a future
sovereign credit ratings downgrade of the US government, including the rating of US Treasury securities. On 15 October 2013, Fitch
Ratings placed the US’s AAA credit rating under ‘rating watch negative’ in response to the financial crisis, a step that would precede an
actual downgrade, which was however upgraded again to ‘stable’ in March 2014. It is foreseeable that the ratings and perceived
creditworthiness of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by institutions, agencies or instrumentalities directly linked to the US
government could also be correspondingly affected by any such downgrade. Instruments of this nature are key assets on the balance
sheets of financial institutions and are widely used as collateral by financial institutions to meet their day-to-day cash flows in the
short-term debt market. The impact of any further downgrades to the sovereign credit rating of the US government or a default by
the US government to satisfy its debt obligations likely would create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which would weigh
heavily on the global financial system and could consequently result in a significant adverse impact to the Group.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

318

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk factors - continued

Adverse capital and credit market conditions as well as changes in regulations may impact our ability to access
liquidity and capital, as well as the cost of liquidity, credit and capital.

Adverse capital market conditions have in the past affected, and may in the future affect, our cost of borrowed funds and our ability to
borrow on a secured and unsecured basis, thereby impacting our ability to support and/or grow our businesses. Furthermore, although
interest rates are at or near historically low levels, since the recent financial crisis, we have experienced increased funding costs due in
part to the withdrawal of perceived government support of such institutions in the event of future financial crises. In addition, liquidity
in the financial markets has also been negatively impacted as market participants and market practices and structures adjust to new
regulations.
We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, maintain our securities
lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations and our
business will suffer. The principal sources of our funding include a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including deposit fund,
repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium- and long-term debt, subordinated debt securities, capital securities and
stockholders’ equity.
In the event that our current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may need to seek additional financing. The availability of
additional financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of
trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the
possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our
access to funds may be limited if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If our internal sources of
liquidity prove to be insufficient, there is a risk that we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favourable
terms, or at all. Any actions we might take to access financing may, in turn, cause rating agencies to re-evaluate our ratings.
Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital. Such market conditions may
in the future limit our ability to raise additional capital to support business growth, or to counterbalance the consequences of losses or
increased regulatory capital and rating agency capital requirements. This could force us to (i) delay raising capital, (ii) reduce, cancel or
postpone payment of dividends on our shares, (iii) reduce, cancel or postpone interest payments on our other securities, (iv) issue
capital of different types or under different terms than we would otherwise, or (v) incur a higher cost of capital than in a more stable
market environment. This would have the potential to decrease both our profitability and our financial flexibility. Our results of
operations, financial condition, cash flows, regulatory capital and rating agency capital position could be materially adversely affected
by disruptions in the financial markets.
We are subject to the jurisdiction of a variety of banking regulatory bodies, some of which have proposed regulatory changes in recent
years that, if implemented, would hinder our ability to manage our liquidity in a centralised manner. As a holding company, ING Groep
N.V. is dependent for liquidity on payments from its subsidiaries, which are subject to restrictions, as described in ‘—As a holding
company, ING Groep N.V. is dependent for liquidity on payments from its subsidiaries, many of which are subject to regulatory and
other restrictions.’. Furthermore, regulatory liquidity requirements in certain jurisdictions in which we operate are generally becoming
more stringent, including those forming part of the ‘Basel III’ requirements discussed further below under ‘—We operate in highly
regulated industries. Changes in laws and/or regulations governing financial services or financial institutions or the application of such
laws and/or regulations governing our business may reduce our profitability’, undermining our efforts to maintain this centralised
management of our liquidity. These developments may cause trapped pools of liquidity and capital, resulting in inefficiencies in the
cost of managing our liquidity and solvency, and hinder our efforts to integrate our balance sheet.

Interest rate volatility and other interest rate changes may adversely affect our profitability.

Changes in prevailing interest rates may negatively affect our business, including the level of net interest revenue we earn, and the
levels of deposits and the demand for loans. A sustained increase in the inflation rate in our principal markets may also negatively
affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, a sustained increase in the inflation rate may result in
an increase in nominal market interest rates. A failure to accurately anticipate higher inflation and factor it into our product pricing
assumptions may result in mispricing of our products, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. On the
other hand, recent concerns regarding negative interest rates and the low level of interest rates generally may negatively impact our
net interest income, which may have an adverse impact on our profitability.
Declining interest rates or a prolonged period of low interest rates, as is currently the case, may result in:
• lower earnings over time on investments, as reinvestments will earn lower rates;
• increased prepayment or redemption of mortgages and fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolios, as well as increased
prepayments of corporate loans. This as borrowers seek to borrow at lower interest rates potentially combined with lower credit
spreads. Consequently, we may be required to reinvest the proceeds into assets at lower interest rates;
• lower profitability as the result of a decrease in the spread between client rates earned on assets and client rates paid on savings,
current account and other liabilities;
• higher costs for certain derivative instruments that may be used to hedge certain of our product risks;
• lower profitability since we may not be able to fully track the decline in interest rates in our savings rates;

ING Group Annual Report 2017

319

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk factors - continued

•
•
•
•

lower profitability since we may not always be entitled to impose surcharges to customers to compensate for the decline in
interest rates;
lower profitability since we may have to pay a higher premium for the defined contribution scheme in the Netherlands for which
the premium paid is dependent on interest rate developments and DNB's methodology for determining the ultimate forward rate;
lower interest rates may cause asset margins to decrease thereby lowering our results of operations. This may for example be the
consequence of increased competition for investments as result of the low rates, thereby driving margins down; and/or
(depending on the position) a significant collateral posting requirement associated with our interest rate hedge programs, which
could materially and adversely affect liquidity and our profitability.

All these effects may be amplified in a negative rate environment. In such environment there may also be the risk that a rate is to be
paid on assets, while there is no comparable rate paid on the liabilities. This will reduce our results of operations then.
Rapidly increasing interest rates may result in:
• a decrease in the demand for loans;
• higher interest rates to be paid on debt securities that we have issued or may issue on the financial markets from time to time to
finance our operations and on savings, which would increase our interest expenses and reduce our results of operations;
• higher interest rates can lead to lower investments prices reduce the revaluation reserves, thereby lowering IFRS equity and the
capital ratios. Also the lower securities value leads to a loss of liquidity generating capacity which needs to be compensated by
attracting new liquidity generating capacity which reduces our results of operations;
• prepayment losses if prepayment rates are lower than expected or if interest rates increase too rapidly to adjust the
accompanying hedges; and/or
• (depending on the position) a significant collateral posting requirement associated with our interest rate hedge program;

Inflation and deflation may negatively affect our business.

A sustained increase in the inflation rate in our principal markets would have multiple impacts on us and may negatively affect our
business, solvency position and results of operations. For example, a sustained increase in the inflation rate may result in an increase
in market interest rates, which may:
• decrease the estimated fair value of certain fixed income securities that we hold in our investment portfolios, resulting in:
• reduced levels of unrealised capital gains available to us, which could negatively impact our solvency position and net income,
and/or
• a decrease in collateral values,
• result in increased withdrawal of certain savings products, particularly those with fixed rates below market rates,
• require us, as an issuer of securities, to pay higher interest rates on debt securities that we issue in the financial markets from time
to time to finance our operations, which would increase our interest expenses and reduce our results of operations.
A significant and sustained increase in inflation has historically also been associated with decreased prices for equity
securities and sluggish performance of equity markets generally. A sustained decline in equity markets may:
• result in impairment charges to equity securities that we hold in our investment portfolios and reduced levels of unrealised capital
gains available to us which would reduce our net income, and
• lower the value of our equity investments impacting our capital position.
In addition, a failure to accurately anticipate higher inflation and factor it into our product pricing may result in a systemic mispricing
of our products, which would negatively impact our results of operations.
On the other hand, deflation experienced in our principal markets may also adversely affect our financial performance. In recent
years, the risk of low inflation and even deflation (i.e., a continued period with negative rates of inflation) in the eurozone has
materialized. Deflation may erode collateral values and diminish the quality of loans and cause a decrease in borrowing levels, which
would negatively affect our business and results of operations.

We operate in highly regulated industries. Changes in laws and/or regulations governing financial services or financial
institutions or the application of such laws and/or regulations governing our business may reduce our profitability.
We are subject to detailed banking laws and government regulation in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Regulatory
agencies and supervisors have broad administrative power and enforcement capabilities over many aspects of our business, which
may include liquidity, capital adequacy, permitted investments, ethical issues, money laundering, anti-terrorism measures, privacy,
recordkeeping, product and sale suitability, marketing and sales practices, remuneration policies, personal conduct and our own
internal governance practices. Also, regulators and other supervisory authorities in the European Union (‘EU’), the United States (‘US’)
and elsewhere continue to scrutinise payment processing and other transactions and activities of the financial services industry
through laws and regulations governing such matters as money laundering, anti-terrorism financing, tax evasion, prohibited
transactions with countries or persons subject to sanctions, and bribery or other anti-corruption measures.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

320

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk factors - continued

Our revenues and profitability and those of our competitors have been and will continue to be impacted by requirements relating to
capital, additional loss-absorbing capacity, leverage, minimum liquidity and long-term funding levels, requirements related to
resolution and recovery planning, derivatives clearing and margin rules and levels of regulatory oversight, as well as limitations on
which and, if permitted, how certain business activities may be carried out by financial institutions.
Regulators around the world have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Most of the principal
markets where we conduct our business have adopted, or are currently in the implementation phase of, major legislative and/or
regulatory initiatives in response to the financial crisis. Governmental and regulatory authorities in the Netherlands, Germany,
Belgium, the United Kingdom, the EU, the US and elsewhere have implemented, or are in the process of implementing measures to
increase regulatory control in their respective financial markets and financial services sectors, including, among others, in the areas of
prudential rules, liquidity and capital requirements, executive compensation, crisis and contingency management, bank taxes and
financial reporting. Additionally, governmental and regulatory authorities in the Netherlands, in the EU and the US as well as in a
multitude of jurisdictions where we conduct our business continue to consider new mechanisms to limit the occurrence and/or
severity of future economic crises (including proposals to restrict the size of financial institutions operating in their jurisdictions and/or
the scope of operations of such institutions). Furthermore, we are subject to different tax regulations in each of the jurisdictions where
we conduct business. Changes in tax laws (including case law) could increase our taxes and our effective tax rates and could
materially impact our tax receivables and liabilities as well as deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, which could have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in tax laws could also make certain ING
products less attractive, which could have adverse consequences for our businesses and results.
Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is resources-intensive, and changes in laws and regulations may materially increase
costs. We expect the scope and extent of regulation in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, as well as regulatory
oversight and supervision, to generally continue to increase. However, we cannot predict whether or when future legislative or
regulatory actions may be taken, or what impact, if any, actions taken to date or in the future could have on our business, results of
operations and financial condition. Regulation is becoming increasingly more extensive and complex and the industries in which we
operate are increasingly coming under the scrutiny of regulators, and affected companies, including ING, are required to meet the
demands, which often necessitate additional resources. These regulations can limit our activities, among others, through stricter net
capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements and restrictions on the businesses in which we can operate or invest.
Despite our efforts to maintain effective compliance procedures and to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we face the risk
of non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations. There are a number of risks in areas where applicable regulations may be
unclear, subject to multiple interpretations or under development, or where regulations may conflict with one another, or where
regulators revise their previous guidance or courts overturn previous rulings, which could result in our failure to meet applicable
standards. Regulators and other authorities have the power to bring administrative or judicial proceedings against us, which could
result, among other things, in suspension or revocation of our licenses, cease and desist orders, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties
or other disciplinary action, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to address, or
appear to fail to address, any of these matters appropriately, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to additional
legal risk, which could, in turn, increase the size and number of claims and damages brought against us or subject us to enforcement
actions, fines and penalties.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

321

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk factors - continued

Basel III, CRD IV and CRD V

In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (‘BCBS’) announced higher global minimum capital standards for
banks and introduced a new global liquidity standard and a new leverage ratio. The BCBS’s package of reforms, collectively referred to
as the ‘Basel III’ rules, will, among other requirements, increase the amount of common equity required to be held by subject banking
institutions, prescribe the amount of liquid assets and the long-term funding a subject banking institution must hold at any given
moment and limit leverage. Banks will be required to hold a ‘capital conservation buffer’ to withstand future periods of stress such that
the total common equity Tier 1 ratio, when fully phased in on 1 January 2019, will rise to 7%. Basel III also introduced a
‘countercyclical buffer’ as an extension of the capital conservation buffer, which would allow national regulators to require banks to
hold more capital during periods of high credit growth (to strengthen capital reserves and moderate the debt markets). Further, Basel
III has strengthened the definition of capital that will have the effect of disqualifying many hybrid securities, including those issued by
the Group, from inclusion in regulatory capital, as well as the higher capital requirements for trading, derivative and securitisation
activities as part of a number of reforms to the Basel II framework. In addition, the BCBS and the Financial Stability Board (‘FSB’)
published measures in October 2011 that would have the effect of requiring higher loss absorbency capacity, liquidity surcharges,
exposure limits and special resolution regimes for, and instituting more intensive and effective supervision of, ‘systemically important
financial institutions’ (‘SIFIs’) and so-called ‘Global’ SIFIs (‘G-SIFIs’), in addition to the Basel III requirements otherwise applicable to most
financial institutions. In particular in November 2015 the FSB published the final Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC) standard for GSIFIs, which aims for G-SIFIs to have sufficient loss-absorbing and recapitalisation capacity available in resolution. The implementation
of these measures began in 2012, and full implementation is targeted for 2019, with the TLAC requirements to apply from 2019. ING
Bank has been designated by the BCBS and the FSB as one of the global systemically important banks (‘G-SIBs’), forming part of the GSIFIs, since 2011, and by the Dutch Central Bank (De Nederlandsche Bank N.V., ‘DNB’) and the Dutch Ministry of Finance as a domestic
SIFI since November 2011. The Basel III proposals and their potential impact are monitored via semi-annual monitoring exercises in
which ING Bank participates. As a result of such monitoring exercises and ongoing discussions within the regulatory environment,
revisions have been made to the original Basel III proposals as was the case with the revised Liquidity Coverage Ratio in January 2013
and the revised Net Stable Funding Ratio and Leverage Ratio in January 2014. In December 2017, the Basel III revisions were formally
announced by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS). These new prudential rules for banks consist of a revision to the
standardised approach to credit risk, the introduction of a capital floor based on standardised approaches, the use of internal models,
limitation of options for modelling operating risks, and new rules for the establishment of risk-weighted items and unused credit lines
at the banks. With a long implementation phase and the transposition into EU regulation still pending, some question marks remain
on how this will shape up.
For European banks, the Basel III requirements were implemented through the Capital Requirements Regulation and Capital
Requirements Directive IV (‘CRD IV Regulation’ and ‘CRD IV Directive’, respectively and together the ‘CRR’), which were adopted by the
EC in June 2013 following approval by the European Parliament in April 2013. The CRD IV Regulation entered into force on 28 June
2013 and the CRD IV Directive on 17 July 2013, and all banks and investment firms in the EU (as opposed to the scope of the Basel III
requirements, which apply to ‘internationally active banks’) were required to apply the new rules from 1 January 2014 in phases, with
full implementation by 1 January 2019. The full impact of these rules, and any additional requirements for SIFIs or G-SIFIs, if and as
applicable to the Group, will depend on how the CRD IV Directive is transposed into national laws in each Member State, including the
extent to which national regulators and supervisors set more stringent limits and additional capital requirements or surcharges. In the
Netherlands, the CRD IV Directive has been implemented through amendments to the Financial Supervision Act. In the next phase for
regulatory requirements for banks’ risk and capital management, the regulators are focusing on the required capital calculations
across banks. Since the start of the financial crisis there has been much debate on the risk-weighted capitalisation of banks, and
specifically on whether internal models are appropriate for such purposes. These developments have suggested that stricter rules may
be applied by a later framework. The BCBS released several consultative papers, containing proposals to change the methodologies for
the calculation of capital requirements and is expected to issue further standards in this respect. Within these proposals BCBS suggests
methods to calculate RWA using more standardised or simpler methods in order to achieve greater comparability, transparency and
consistency. In November 2016, the EC proposed substantial amendments (commonly referred to as CRD V) to the CRR (including the
CRD IV Directive), the BRRD and the Singe Resolution Mechanism Regulation to, among other things, implement these revisions in the
EU legislation. Legislation is expected to be finalised in 2018. These proposals will likely impact the capital requirements for currently
reported exposures (e.g. credit risk via revised standardised RWA floor) but may also lead to new capital requirements. The proposals
cover multiple areas, including the Pillar 2 framework, the leverage ratio, mandatory restrictions on distributions, permission for
reducing own funds and eligible liabilities, macroprudential tools, a new category of ‘non-preferred’ senior debt, the minimum
requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL) and the integration of the TLAC standard into EU legislation. The proposals are
to be considered by the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union and therefore remain subject to change. The final
package of new legislation may not include all elements of the proposals and new or amended elements may be introduced through
the course of the legislative process. Until the proposals are in final form, it is uncertain how the proposals will affect the Group or
holders of its securities. The current proposals, as well as on the economic and financial environment at the time of implementation
and beyond, can have a material impact on ING’s operations and financial condition and they may require the Group to seek
additional capital.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

322

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk factors - continued

Single Supervisory Mechanism

In November 2014, the European Central Bank (‘ECB’) assumed responsibility for a significant part of the prudential supervision of
banks in the eurozone, including ING Bank, following a year-long preparatory phase which included an in-depth comprehensive
assessment of the resilience and balance sheets of the biggest banks in the eurozone. ING Bank was among the seven Dutch
institutions covered by the assessment (out of 130 institutions overall). While the ECB has assumed the supervisory tasks conferred on
it by the Single Supervisory Mechanism (‘SSM’) Regulation, the DNB will still continue to play a big role in the supervision of ING Group
and ING Bank.
In its capacity as principal bank supervisor in the European Union, the ECB has extensive supervisory and investigatory powers,
including the ability to issue requests for information, to conduct regulatory investigations and on-site inspections, and to impose
monetary and other sanctions. For example, under the SSM, the regulators with jurisdiction over the Group, including the ECB, may
conduct stress tests and have discretion to impose capital surcharges on financial institutions for risks that are not otherwise
recognised in risk-weighted assets or other surcharges depending on the individual situation of the bank and take or require other
measures, such as restrictions on or changes to the Group’s business. Competent regulators may also, if the Group fails to comply with
regulatory requirements, in particular with minimum capital requirements (including buffer requirements) or with liquidity
requirements, or if there are shortcomings in its governance and risk management processes, prohibit the Group from making
dividend payments to shareholders or distributions to holders of its regulatory capital instruments. Generally, a failure to comply with
the new quantitative and qualitative regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial
condition and results of operations.
In order to make capital levels more comparable and to reduce variability in banks’ internal models, the European Central Bank (ECB)
introduced the Targeted Review of Internal Models (TRIM) in June 2017 to assess reliability and comparability between banks’ models.
The TRIM aims to create a level playing field by harmonising the regulatory guidance around internal models, and the ultimate goal is
to restore trust in the use of internal models by European banks. The operating consequences of the TRIM exercise have been
significant. The TRIM is expected to finalise in 2019, and could impact ING through more stringent regulation on internal models. There
is also heightened supervisory attention for the credit quality of loans to corporates and/or households. These exercises could impact
the RWA we recognise for certain assets.

Dodd-Frank Act

On 21 July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (‘Dodd-Frank’ or ‘Dodd-Frank Act’) was signed into
law in the US The Dodd-Frank Act effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the US and has implications
for non-US financial institutions with a US presence or that transact with US counterparties, such as ING. Dodd-Frank directs existing
and newly created government agencies and bodies to perform studies and promulgate a multitude of regulations implementing the
law, most of which are in place. Because some of the regulations have only recently taken effect or are yet to be finalized, we cannot
predict with certainty how such regulations will affect the financial markets generally and impact the Group’s business, credit rating,
results of operations, cash flows or financial condition or liquidity. Key aspects of Dodd- Frank that we have identified to date as
possibly having an impact on the Group include the aspects set out below:
Title VII of Dodd-Frank created a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives markets and certain market
participants which has affected and could continue to affect various activities of the Group and its subsidiaries. ING Capital Markets
LLC, a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of ING Bank N.V., has registered with the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission (‘CFTC’)
as a swap dealer. The SEC is expected to adopt regulations establishing registration and margin and capital requirements for securitybased swaps. Along with the still indeterminate effective date for SEC regulations on, among others, reporting, registration, and
internal and external business conduct with respect to security-based swaps, these are likely to materially impact ING. Additionally,
the CFTC is expected to adopt capital requirements for swap dealers, although the specific requirements, and any available
exemptions, have not been finalized. If these requirements are applicable to ING, and no exemptions are available, it is possible that
these requirements will be difficult for ING to comply with and may, as a result, materially and adversely impact ING's ability to
operate as a swap dealer in the US Other CFTC regulatory requirements, already implemented, include registration of swap dealers,
business conduct rules imposed on swap dealers, requirements that some categories of swaps be centrally executed on regulated
trading facilities and cleared through regulated clearing houses, and initial and variation margin requirements for uncleared swaps. In
addition, new position limits requirements for market participants that have been proposed and may be contained in final regulations
to be adopted by the CFTC could limit ING’s position sizes in swaps referencing specified commodities and similarly limit the ability of
counterparties to utilize certain of our products by narrowing the scope of hedging activity that is permitted for commercial end users
and the trading activity of speculators. All of the foregoing areas of regulation of the derivative markets and market participants will
likely result in increased cost of hedging and other trading activities, both for ING and its customers, which could expose our business
to greater risk and could reduce the size and profitability of our customer business. In addition, the imposition of these regulatory
restrictions and requirements, could result in reduced market liquidity, which could in turn increase market volatility and the risks and
costs of hedging and other trading activities.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

323

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk factors - continued

Pursuant to requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC and CFTC are required to consider whether stable value contracts should be
regulated as ‘swap’ derivative contracts. In the event that stable value contracts become subject to such regulation, certain aspects of
our business could be adversely impacted, including issuance of stable value contracts and management of assets pursuant to stable
value mandates.
Dodd-Frank established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (‘CFPB’) as an independent agency within the Federal Reserve to
regulate consumer financial products and services offered primarily for personal, family or household purposes. The CFPB has
significant authority to implement and enforce federal consumer financial laws, including the new protections established under
Dodd- Frank, as well as the authority to identify and prohibit unfair, deceptive and abusive acts and practices. In addition, the CFPB has
broad supervisory, examination and enforcement authority over certain consumer products, such as mortgage lending. Insurance
products and services are not within the CFPB’s general jurisdiction, and broker-dealers and investment advisers are not subject to the
CFPB’s jurisdiction when acting in their registered capacity.
On 10 December 2013, various federal agencies approved a final rule implementing Section 619 of Dodd-Frank, commonly referred to
as the ‘Volcker Rule’ and which places limitations and restrictions on the ability of US FDIC insured depository institutions and non-US
banks with branches or agencies in the US that become subject to the US Bank Holding Company Act, as well as their affiliates, to
engage in certain proprietary trading or sponsor and invest in private equity and hedge funds. As a general matter, such organisations
have until July 2017 to comply with the prohibition on certain fund activities and until July 2015 to comply with the proprietary
trading prohibitions. In the event that we or one of our affiliates becomes subject to the Volcker Rule, our trading and investment
activities could be so restricted. It is expected that we will experience significant additional compliance and operational costs and may
be prohibited from engaging in certain activities we currently conduct if the Volcker Rule becomes applicable to us and our affiliates.
For instance, ING Group’s wholly owned subsidiary, ING Bank, may at some point in time consider whether to establish a branch office
in the US If ING Bank were to establish a US branch, we would be subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve under
various laws and various restrictions on our activities under those laws, including the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended,
and the International Banking Act of 1978, and, as a consequence, such supervision and regulation, including such restrictions on
activities could materially impact our operations. These would include, among others, the Volcker Rule and heightened supervisory
requirements and prudential standards. Dodd-Frank also includes various securities law reforms that may affect the Group’s business
practices and the liabilities and/or exposures associated therewith, including a provision intended to authorise the SEC to impose on
broker-dealers’ fiduciary duties to their customers, as applied to investment advisers under existing law, which new standard could
potentially expose certain of ING’s US broker-dealers to increased risk of SEC enforcement actions and liability. In 2011, the SEC staff
released a study on this issue, and members of the SEC’s Investor Advisory Committee voted in November 2013 to recommend the
proposal implementing a uniform fiduciary standard for most brokers and registered investment advisers to the SEC.
Although the full impact of Dodd-Frank and its implementing regulations cannot be determined at this time, many of their
requirements have had and may continue to have profound and/or adverse consequences for the financial services industry, including
for us. Dodd-Frank, in its current form, could make it more expensive for us to conduct business, require us to make changes to our
business model or satisfy increased capital requirements, subject us to greater regulatory scrutiny or to potential increases in
whistleblower claims in light of the increased awards available to whistleblowers under Dodd-Frank and have a material effect on our
results of operations or financial condition.
In 2017, the US Secretary of Treasury issued several reports, after consultation with other financial regulatory agencies, evaluating the
current financial regulatory framework against core principles set out by the new US administration. The reports have recommended
some revisions to Dodd-Frank and related rules and regulations. There can be no assurance that these or any other future reforms will
not significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act and other US withholding tax regulations

Under provisions of US tax law commonly referred to as FATCA, non-US financial institutions are required to provide certain
information on their US account holders and/or certain US investors to the US Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). A 30% withholding tax is
imposed on ‘withholdable payments’ made to non-compliant non-US financial institutions. In addition to FATCA, non-US financial
institutions are required to comply with other US withholding and reporting requirements on certain payments. The Group intends to
take all necessary steps to comply with FATCA and other US withholding tax regulations. ING is for example updating and
strengthening its withholding compliance programme and reviewing, amending and filing the necessary tax returns and information
reports.
Many countries, including the Netherlands, have entered into agreements (‘intergovernmental agreements’ or ‘IGAs’) with the US to
facilitate the type of information reporting required under FATCA. While the existence of IGAs will not eliminate the risk of the
withholding described above, these agreements are expected to reduce that risk for financial institutions and investors in countries
that have entered into IGAs. IGAs will often require financial institutions in those countries to report information on their US account
holders to the taxing authorities of those countries, who will then pass the information to the IRS.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

324

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk factors - continued

If the Group is unable to comply with requirements imposed under IGAs or otherwise comply with FATCA (including as a result of local
laws in non-IGA countries prohibiting information-sharing with the IRS, as a result of contracts or local laws prohibiting withholding on
certain payments to account holders or other investors, or as a result of the failure of account holders or other investors to provide
requested information), certain payments to the Group may be subject to withholding under FATCA. Payments made with respect to
certain products offered by members of the Group may also be or become subject to withholding under FATCA. The possibility of such
withholding and the need for account holders and investors to provide certain information may adversely affect the sales of certain of
the Group’s products. In addition (i) compliance with the terms of IGAs and with FATCA, with any regulations or other guidance
promulgated thereunder or any legislation promulgated under an IGA, and (ii) offering products subject to US withholding, may
substantially increase the Group’s compliance costs. Because legislation and regulations implementing FATCA and the IGAs remain
under development, the future impact of this law on the Group is uncertain. Failure to comply with FATCA and other US withholding
tax regulations could harm our reputation and could subject the Group to enforcement actions, fines and penalties, which could have
a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, revenues, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. For additional
information with respect to specific proceedings, see Note 45 ‘Legal proceedings’ to the consolidated financial statements.

Common Reporting Standard

Similarly, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (‘OECD’) has developed a Common Reporting Standard (‘CRS’)
and model competent authority agreement to enable the multilateral and automatic exchange of financial account information. The
CRS will require financial institutions to identify and report the tax residency and account details of non-resident customers to the
relevant authorities in jurisdictions adhering to CRS. As of 2 November 2016, more than 100 jurisdictions, including the Netherlands,
have signed a multilateral competent authority agreement to automatically exchange information pursuant to the CRS. The majority
of countries where ING has a presence has committed to CRS. The EU has made CRS mandatory for all its member states. The first
information exchange by the Netherlands (as for most of the signatories) occurred in 2017.

Bank Recovery and Resolution Regimes

In June 2012, the ‘Intervention Act’ (Wet bijzondere maatregelen financiële ondernemingen) came into force in the Netherlands, with
retroactive effect from 20 January 2012. The Intervention Act mainly amended the Dutch Financial Supervision Act and the Dutch
Insolvency Act allowing Dutch authorities to take certain actions with respect to a failing bank or insurer that cannot be wound up
under ordinary insolvency rules due to concerns regarding the stability of the overall financial system. It comprised two categories of
measures. The first category of measures related to banks or insurers facing serious financial difficulties and included measures
related to the timely and efficient liquidation of the failing institution. This set of measures gave the DNB the power to transfer
customer deposits, assets and/or liabilities other than deposits and issued shares of an entity to third parties or to a bridge bank if the
DNB deemed that, in respect of the relevant institution, there were signs of adverse developments with respect to its funds, solvency,
liquidity or technical provisions and it could be reasonably foreseen that such developments would not be sufficiently or timely
reversed. The DNB was also granted the power to influence the internal decision-making of failing institutions through the
appointment of an ‘undisclosed administrator’. The second category of measures can be triggered if the stability of the financial
system is in serious and immediate danger as a result of the failure of a Dutch financial institution and includes measures intended to
safeguard the stability of the financial system as a whole. This set of measures granted authority to the Dutch Minister of Finance to
take immediate measures or proceed to expropriation of assets or liabilities , or shares in the capital, of failing financial institutions.
Within the context of the resolution tools provided in the Intervention Act, holders of debt securities of a bank subject to resolution
could also be affected by issuer substitution or replacement, transfer of debt, expropriation, modification of terms and/or suspension
or termination of listings.
In addition, on 26 November 2015 the ‘Act on implementing the European framework for the recovery and resolution of banks and
Investment firms’ (Implementatiewet Europees kader voor herstel en afwikkeling van banken en beleggingsondernemingen) came into
force, implementing the ‘Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive’ (‘BRRD’) and partly amending the Intervention Act. Certain measures
introduced by the Intervention Act were replaced, with respect to banking institutions, with measures based on the BRRD and the SRM
Regulation, as described below. The BRRD came into effect on 2 July 2014. It includes, among other things, the obligation for
institutions to draw up a recovery plan and for resolution authorities in the Member States to draw up a resolution plan, the resolution
authorities’ power to take early intervention measures and the establishment of a European system of financing arrangements. The
BRRD confers extensive resolution powers on the resolution authorities, including the power to require the sale of (part of a) business,
to establish a bridge institution, to separate assets and to take bail-in measures. The stated aim of the BRRD is to provide supervisory
authorities and resolution authorities with common tools and powers to address banking crises pre-emptively in order to safeguard
financial stability and minimise taxpayers’ exposure to losses. In November 2016, the EC proposed amendments to the BRRD regarding
the ranking of unsecured debt instruments in national insolvency proceedings (to include a new category of ‘non-preferred’ senior
debt) and to enhance the stabilisation tools with the introduction of a moratorium tool.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

325

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk factors - continued

The powers granted to resolution authorities under the BRRD include, among others, the introduction of a statutory ‘write-down and
conversion’ power and a ‘bail-in’ power, which gives the relevant resolution authority the power to, inter alia, (i) cancel existing shares
and/or dilute existing shareholders by converting relevant capital instruments or eligible liabilities into shares of the surviving entity, (ii)
cancel all or a portion of the principal amount of, or interest on, certain unsecured liabilities (which could include certain securities that
have been or will be issued by ING) of a failing financial institution or group and/or (iii) convert certain debt claims (which could include
certain securities that have been or will be issued by ING) into another security, including ordinary shares of the surviving group entity,
if any. None of these actions would be expected to constitute an event of default under those securities entitling holders to seek
repayment.
In addition to a ‘write-down and conversion’ power and a ‘bail-in’ power, the powers granted to the resolution authority under the
BRRD include the two categories of measures introduced by the Intervention Act, as described above. In addition, the BRRD stipulates,
among the broader powers to be granted to the relevant resolution authority, that it will confer powers to the relevant resolution
authority to amend or alter the maturity date or interest payment date of debt instruments, including by suspending payment for a
temporary period, or to amend the interest amount payable under such instruments. None of these actions would be expected to
constitute an event of default under those debt instruments or other eligible liabilities entitling holders to seek repayment.
Many of the rules implementing the BRRD are contained in detailed technical and implementing rules, the exact text of which is
subject to agreement and adoption by the relevant EU legislative institutions. Therefore, for some rules, there remains uncertainty
regarding the ultimate nature and scope of these resolution powers and, when implemented, how they would affect us and the
securities that have been issued or will be issued by us. Accordingly, it is not possible to assess the full impact of the BRRD on ING and
on holders of any securities issued or to be issued by ING, and there can be no assurance that, once it is fully implemented, the
manner in which it is applied or the taking of any actions by the relevant resolution authority contemplated in the BRRD would not
adversely affect the rights of holders of the securities issued or to be issued by ING, the price or value of an investment in such
securities and/or ING’s ability to satisfy its obligations under such securities.
Finally, as part of the move towards a full banking union, on 19 August 2014, the Single Resolution Mechanism (‘SRM’) came into effect,
with the aim to have a Single Resolution Board (‘SRB’) to be responsible for key decisions on how a bank subject to SSM supervision is to
be resolved if a bank has irreversible financial difficulties and cannot be wound up under normal insolvency proceedings without
destabilizing the financial system. The SRB is a key element of the SRM and is the European resolution authority for the Banking Union
and is fully operational, with a complete set of resolution powers, as of 1 January 2016. The SRB works in close cooperation with the
national resolution authorities such as the Dutch national resolution authority. The SRB is also in charge of the Single Resolution Fund,
a pool of money financed by the banking sector which will be set up to ensure that medium-term funding support is available while a
credit institution is being restructured. Historically, ING Bank has contributed to the Dutch National Resolution Fund (the ‘NRF’).
Beginning in 2016, contributions to the NRF will be phased out and will decrease steadily until they decrease to nil in 2023; during the
same period, contributions to the SRF will commence and steadily increase, replacing ING Bank’s contributions to the NRF. As the
contributions for the NRF and the SRF are calculated on a different basis and by different authorities (DNB and SRB, respectively) the
contributions to the SRF may deviate from the contributions to the NRF.
There are certain differences between the provisions of the Intervention Act, the BRRD and the SRM Regulation, which may further
bring future changes to the law. We are unable to predict what specific effects the Intervention Act and the implementation of the
BRRD and the entry into force of the SRM Regulation may have on the financial system generally, our counterparties, holders of
securities issued by or to be issued by us, or on us, our operations or our financial position.
ING has a recovery plan in place to enhance the bank’s readiness and decisiveness to tackle financial crises on its own. Effective since
2012, the plan is updated annually to make sure it stays fit for purpose. The completeness, quality and credibility of the recovery plan
is assessed annually by ING’s regulators. Since 2012, ING has worked together with the different resolution authorities to determine a
resolution strategy and to identify potential impediments to resolution. This resulted in a resolvability assessment that is shared every
year with the FSB and the preparation of a transitional resolution plan by the SRB. In November 2016, ING concluded that ING Groep
N.V. should be the designated resolution entity. At the end of January 2017, the SRB has informed ING that it supports the designation
of ING Groep N.V. as the point of entry.

Financial Stability Board

In addition to the adoption of the foregoing measures, regulators and lawmakers around the world are actively reviewing the causes
of the financial crisis and exploring steps to avoid similar problems in the future. In many respects, this work is being led by the FSB,
consisting of representatives of national financial authorities of the G20 nations. The G20 and the FSB have issued a series of papers
and recommendations intended to produce significant changes in how financial companies, particularly companies that are members
of large and complex financial groups, should be regulated. These proposals address such issues as financial group supervision, capital
and solvency standards, systemic economic risk, corporate governance, including executive compensation and risk culture, and a host
of related issues associated with responses to the financial crisis.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

326

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk factors - continued

In November 2015, the FSB published final standards on the adequacy of loss absorbing capacity held by G-SIBs. These comprise: (i) a
set of principles on loss-absorbing and recapitalisation capacity of G-SIBs in resolution and (ii) a high level “termsheet” setting out an
internationally agreed standard on the characteristics and adequacy of TLAC. The key requirement mandates G-SIBs to hold long-term
debt that can be written down or converted into equity in the event that a G-SIB is put into liquidation, thereby providing a specific
means of absorbing losses and recapitalising the G-SIB. The numbers are significant with the minimum standard requiring a G-SIB to
hold TLAC of at least 16% of risk weighted assets and at least 6% of the leverage ratio denominator from 1 January 2019, and at least
18% and 6.75% respectively from 1 January 2022 on. In November 2016, the EC proposed amendments to the CRR and BRRD to
implement the FSB’s minimum TLAC requirement for G-SIB that are intended to align the TLAC requirement with the minimum
requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL). In October 2016, the BCBS issued a final standard regarding the regulatory
capital treatments of TLAC holdings of other G-SBIBs, confirming that G-SIBs must deduct from their own TLAC exposures TLAC
instruments and liabilities issued by other G-SIBS.

Additional Governmental Measures

Governments in The Netherlands and abroad have also intervened over the past few years on an unprecedented scale, responding to
stresses experienced in the global financial markets. Some of the measures adopted subject us and other institutions for which they
were designed to additional restrictions, oversight or costs. Restrictions related to the Restructuring Plan are further described in Note
50 ‘ING’s Restructuring’ to the consolidated financial statements.
In February 2013, the EC adopted a proposal setting out the details of a financial transaction tax (‘FTT’) under the enhanced
cooperation procedure, to be levied on transactions in financial instruments by financial institutions if at least one of the parties to the
transaction is established in the financial transaction tax zone (‘FTT-zone’) or if the instrument which is the subject of the transaction is
issued within the territory of a Member State in the FFT-Zone. 10 Member States have indicated they wish to participate in the FTT
(Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain). The initial proposal contemplated that the
FTT would enter into effect on 1 January 2014, which would have then required us to pay a tax on transactions in financial
instruments with parties (including Group affiliates) located in such FTT-zone. However, the FTT remains subject to negotiation
between the participating Member States and currently it is uncertain whether and in what form and by which Member States the FTT
will be adopted. The implementation date of any FTT will thus depend on the future approval by participating Member States in the
Council, consultation of other EU institutions, and the subsequent transposition into local law. Depending on its final form, the
introduction of an FTT in the Netherlands or outside the Netherlands could have a substantial adverse effect on ING’s business and
results.
As of 1 October 2012, banks that are active in the Netherlands are subject to a bank tax pursuant to a tax regulation that also includes
measures to moderate bonuses awarded to executives at such banks. Increased bank taxes in countries where the Group is active
result in increased taxes on ING’s banking operations, which could negatively impact our operations, financial condition and liquidity.
For information regarding historical regulatory costs incurred by ING, please refer inter alia to Note 26 ‘Other operating expenses’ to
the consolidated financial statements.

Additional Tier 1 Securities

In April 2015, ING issued USD 2.25 billion of Additional Tier 1 securities (‘AT1 Securities’) and in November 2016, ING issued USD 1 billion
AT1 Securities. ING may issue additional AT1 Securities, or other instruments with similar terms (also known as contingent convertible
bonds or ‘CoCos’), in the future. The Dutch parliament adopted Article 29a of the Dutch Corporate Income Tax Act of 1969 (Wet op de
vennootschapsbelasting 1969) in 2015 to provide debt treatment of securities similar to the AT1 Securities for the purpose of Dutch
corporate income tax (25% rate) and (indirectly) dividend withholding tax purposes (15% non-grossed up rate). The interest payment
obligation of the AT1 Securities is EUR 90 million for the year 2015, EUR 135 million for 2016 and EUR 170 million for 2017. For 2015,
2016 and 2017 the amounts were treated by ING as a deductible interest expenses for Dutch corporate income tax purposes and as
exempt for Dutch dividend withholding tax purposes. However, there is a risk that the EC will take the view, and that court would
uphold such view if contested, that the tax deductibility of interest payments on the AT1 Securities is in contravention of the EC’s
temporary state aid rules for assessing public support to financial institutions during the crisis (the ‘Revised State Aid Guidelines’). The
Revised State Aid Guidelines provide for strengthened burden-sharing requirements, which require banks with capital needs to obtain
shareholders’ and subordinated debt holders’ contributions before resorting to certain state aid measures. If a determination were
made that deduction of interest payments on AT1 Securities and other similar securities, including those ING may issue in the future,
is inconsistent with the Revised State Aid Guidelines, amounts ING would have to pay to the Dutch State with respect to interest
payments that have previously been treated as an expense for Dutch corporate income tax purposes and that have been paid free of
withholding taxes could be substantial, in particular if ING is unable to redeem the securities ( for the years 2015, 2016 and 2017 the
total amount of payment in this respect could be EUR 158 million excluding interest). The terms of the AT1 Securities provide that ING
can redeem the AT1 Securities only upon the occurrence of specific events (not including a determination that the tax treatment of
the AT1 Securities is inconsistent with European rules against state aid) or after 5 years or 10 years (depending on the series) after
their date of issuance.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

327

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk factors - continued

Because we operate in highly competitive markets, including our home market, we may not be able to increase or
maintain our market share, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

There is substantial competition in the Netherlands and the other countries in which we do business for the types of wholesale
banking, retail banking, investment banking and other products and services we provide. Customer loyalty and retention can be
influenced by a number of factors, including brand recognition, reputation, relative service levels, the prices and attributes of products
and services, scope of distribution, credit ratings and actions taken by existing or new competitors. A decline in our competitive
position as to one or more of these factors could adversely impact our ability to maintain or further increase our market share, which
would adversely affect our results of operations. Such competition is most pronounced in our more mature markets of the
Netherlands, Belgium, the rest of Western Europe and Australia. In recent years, however, competition in emerging markets, such as
Latin America, Asia and Central and Eastern Europe, has also increased as large financial services companies from more developed
countries have sought to establish themselves in markets which are perceived to offer higher growth potential, and as local
institutions have become more sophisticated and competitive and proceeded to form alliances, mergers or strategic relationships with
our competitors. The Netherlands is our largest market. Our main competitors in the banking sector in the Netherlands are ABN AMRO
Bank and Rabobank. Competition could also increase due to new entrants in the markets that may have new operating models that
are not burdened by potentially costly legacy operations and that are subject to reduced regulation. New entrants may rely on new
technologies, advanced data and analytic tools, lower cost to serve, reduced regulatory burden and/or faster processes in order to
challenge traditional banks. Developments in technology has also accelerated the use of new business models. For example, new
business models have been observed in retail payments, consumer and commercial lending (such as peer-to-peer lending), foreign
exchange and low-cost investment advisory services. In particular, the emergence of disintermediation in the financial sector resulting
from new banking, lending and payment solutions offered by rapidly evolving incumbents, challengers and new entrants, in particular
with respect to payment services and products, and the introduction of disruptive technology may impede our ability to grow or retain
our market share and impact our revenues and profitability.
Increasing competition in the markets in which we operate may significantly impact our results if we are unable to match the
products and services offered by our competitors. Future economic turmoil may accelerate additional consolidation activity. Over
time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of
financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. These developments could result in
our competitors gaining greater access to capital and liquidity, expanding their ranges of products and services, or gaining geographic
diversity. We may experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors in the event that some of our competitors seek to increase
market share by reducing prices.

The default of a major market participant could disrupt the markets.

Within the financial services industry, the severe distress or default of any one institution (including sovereigns and central
counterparties (CCPs)) could lead to defaults by, or the severe distress of, other market participants. Such distress of, or default by, an
influential financial institution could disrupt markets or clearance and settlement systems and lead to a chain of defaults by other
financial institutions because the commercial and financial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely related as a result
of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships. Even the perceived lack of creditworthiness of a sovereign or financial institution (or a
default by any such entity) may lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. This risk is
sometimes referred to as ‘systemic risk’ and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses,
banks, securities firms and exchanges with whom we interact on a daily basis and financial instruments of sovereigns in which we
invest. Systemic risk could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise new funding and on our business, financial condition,
results of operations, liquidity, solvency position and/or prospects. In addition, such distress or failure could impact future product
sales as a potential result of reduced confidence in the financial services industry.

The inability of counterparties to meet their financial obligations could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations.
Third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets may not pay or perform under their obligations. These parties include the
issuers and guarantors (including sovereigns) of securities we hold, borrowers under loans originated, reinsurers, customers, trading
counterparties, securities lending and repurchase counterparties, counterparties under swaps, credit default and other derivative
contracts, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries. Defaults by one or more of these parties on
their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, downturns in the economy or real estate values, continuing low oil or other
commodity prices, operational failure or other factors, or even rumours about potential defaults by one or more of these parties or
regarding a severe distress of the financial services industry generally, could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations, financial condition and liquidity. Given the high level of interdependence between financial institutions, we are and will
continue to be subject to the risk of deterioration of the commercial and financial soundness, or perceived soundness, of sovereigns
and other financial services institutions. This is particularly relevant to our franchise as an important and large counterparty in equity,
fixed income and foreign exchange markets, including related derivatives.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

328

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk factors - continued

We routinely execute a high volume of transactions, such as unsecured debt instruments, derivative transactions and equity
investments with counterparties and customers in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial and
investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, insurance companies, institutional clients, futures clearing merchants, swap dealers, and
other institutions, resulting in large periodic settlement amounts, which may result in our having significant credit exposure to one or
more of such counterparties or customers. As a result, we could face concentration risk with respect to liabilities or amounts we expect
to collect from specific counterparties and customers. We are exposed to increased counterparty risk as a result of recent financial
institution failures and weakness and will continue to be exposed to the risk of loss if counterparty financial institutions fail or are
otherwise unable to meet their obligations. A default by, or even concerns about the creditworthiness of, one or more of these
counterparties or customers or other financial services institutions could therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations
or liquidity.
With respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be or is liquidated at
prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. We also have exposure to a number of
financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, derivative transactions and equity investments. For example, we hold
certain hybrid regulatory capital instruments issued by financial institutions which permit the issuer to cancel coupon payments on
the occurrence of certain events or at their option. The EC has indicated that, in certain circumstances, it may require these financial
institutions to cancel payment. If this were to happen, we expect that such instruments may experience ratings downgrades and/or a
drop in value and we may have to treat them as impaired, which could result in significant losses. There is no assurance that losses on,
or impairments to the carrying value of, these assets would not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or
financial condition.
In addition, we are subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. The
deterioration or perceived deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could result in
losses and/ or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. A
significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our income and risk weighting,
leading to increased capital requirements. While in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral from counterparties
that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of
pledged assets. Also in this case, our credit risk may also be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be liquidated at prices
sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us, which is most likely to occur during periods of
illiquidity and depressed asset valuations, such as those experienced during the financial crisis of 2008. The termination of contracts
and the foreclosure on collateral may subject us to claims. Bankruptcies, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the
valuation of collateral tend to increase in times of market stress and illiquidity. Any of these developments or losses could materially
and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or prospects.

Market conditions, including those observed over the past few years, may increase the risk of loans being impaired.

We are exposed to the risk that our borrowers (including sovereigns) may not repay their loans according to their contractual terms
and that the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient. We may see adverse changes in the credit quality of
our borrowers and counterparties, for example, as a result of their inability to refinance their indebtedness, with increasing
delinquencies, defaults and insolvencies across a range of sectors. This may lead to impairment charges on loans and other assets,
higher costs and additions to loan loss provisions. A significant increase in the size of our provision for loan losses could have a
material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.
Economic and other factors could lead to contraction in the residential mortgage and commercial lending market and to decreases in
residential and commercial property prices, which could generate substantial increases in impairment losses. Additionally, continuing
low oil prices could have an influence on the repayment capacity of certain corporate borrowers active in the oil and oil related
services industries.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

329

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk factors - continued

We may incur losses due to failures of banks falling under the scope of state compensation schemes.

In the Netherlands and other jurisdictions, deposit guarantee schemes and similar funds (‘Compensation Schemes’) have been
implemented from which compensation may become payable to customers of financial services firms in the event the financial
service firm is unable to pay, or unlikely to pay, claims against it. In many jurisdictions in which we operate, these Compensation
Schemes are funded, directly or indirectly, by financial services firms which operate and/or are licensed in the relevant jurisdiction. ING
Bank is a participant in the Dutch Deposit Guarantee Scheme, which guarantees an amount of EUR 100,000 per person per bank
(regardless of the number of accounts held). Until 2015, the costs involved with making compensation payments under the Dutch
Deposit Guarantee Scheme had been allocated among the participating banks by the DNB, based on an allocation key related to their
market shares with respect to the deposits protected by the Dutch Deposit Guarantee Scheme. Given our size, we may incur
significant compensation payments to be made under the Dutch Deposit Guarantee Scheme, which we may be unable to recover
from the bankrupt estate. Such costs and the associated costs to be borne by us may have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations and financial condition. On 4 July 2015, the new EU Directive on deposit guarantee schemes had to be implemented by EU
member states. As a consequence, the Dutch Deposit Guarantee Scheme has changed from an ex-post scheme, where we would have
contributed after the failure of a firm, to an ex-ante scheme where we pay quarterly risk-weighted contributions into a fund for the
Dutch Deposit Guarantee Scheme. The fund is to grow to a target size of 0.8% of all deposits guaranteed under the Dutch Deposit
Guarantee Scheme, to be reached in July 2024. The Dutch decree implementing the Deposit Guarantee Scheme Directive entered into
force on 26 November 2015.
The first ex-ante DGS contribution has been charged in respect of the first quarter of 2016. The build-up of the ex-ante fund will take
place in 34 quarters. See also ‘—We operate in highly regulated industries. Changes in laws and/or regulations governing financial
services or financial institutions or the application of such laws and/or regulations governing our business may reduce our profitability
— Bank Recovery and Resolution Regimes’.
Currently, the EU is discussing the introduction of a pan-European deposit guarantee scheme, (partly) replacing or complementing
national compensation schemes in two or three phases. Proposals contain elements of (re)insurance, mutual lending and
mutualisation of funds. The new model is intended to be ‘overall cost-neutral’. A more definitive proposal is expected in 2018.

Risks related to the Group's business, operations and regulatory environment
As a holding company, ING Groep N.V. is dependent for liquidity on payments from its subsidiaries, many of which are
subject to regulatory and other restrictions.

ING Groep N.V. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to
fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. Many of our subsidiaries, including our
bank subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of
funds from those subsidiaries to ING Groep N.V.
In addition, our bank subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum
regulatory capital and other requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability to use client funds deposited with them to fund their
businesses. Additional restrictions on related-party transactions, increased capital and liquidity requirements and additional
limitations on the use of funds in client accounts, as well as lower earnings, can reduce the amount of funds available to meet the
obligations of ING Groep N.V., and even require ING Groep N.V. to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries. Restrictions or
regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that ING Groep N.V. needs to make payments on its obligations, including
debt obligations, or dividend payments. In addition ING Groep N.V.’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s
liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors.
There is a trend towards increased regulation and supervision of our subsidiaries by the governments and regulators in the countries
in which those subsidiaries are located or do business. Concerns about protecting clients and creditors of financial institutions that are
controlled by persons or entities located outside of the country in which such entities are located or do business have caused or may
cause a number of governments and regulators to take additional steps to “ring fence” or maintain internal total loss-absorbing
capacity at such entities in order to protect clients and creditors of such entities in the event of financial difficulties involving such
entities. The result has been and may continue to be additional limitations on our ability to efficiently move capital and liquidity
among our affiliated entities, thereby increasing the overall level of capital and liquidity required by the firm on a consolidated basis.
Furthermore, ING Groep N.V. has in the past and may in the future guarantee the payment obligations of certain of its subsidiaries,
including ING Bank N.V., subject to certain exceptions. Any such guarantee may require ING Groep N.V. to provide substantial funds or
assets to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when ING Groep N.V. or its subsidiaries are in need of liquidity to
fund their own obligations.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

330

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk factors - continued

The requirements for ING Groep N.V. to develop and submit recovery and resolution plans to regulators, and the incorporation of
feedback received from regulators, may require us to increase capital or liquidity levels or issue additional long-term debt at ING Groep
N.V. or particular subsidiaries or otherwise incur additional or duplicative operational or other costs at multiple entities, and may
reduce our ability to provide ING Groep N.V. guarantees for the obligations of our subsidiaries or raise debt at ING Groep N.V.
Resolution planning may also impair our ability to structure our intercompany and external activities in a manner that we may
otherwise deem most operationally efficient. Furthermore, arrangements to facilitate our resolution planning may cause us to be
subject to additional costs such as resolution planning related taxes and funds. Any such limitations or requirements would be in
addition to the legal and regulatory restrictions described above on our ability to engage in capital actions or make intercompany
dividends or payments.

Ratings are important to our business for a number of reasons. A downgrade or a potential downgrade in our credit
ratings could have an adverse impact on our operations and net results.

Credit ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding an entity’s ability to repay its indebtedness. Our credit ratings are
important to our ability to raise capital and funding through the issuance of debt and to the cost of such financing. In the event of a
downgrade, the cost of issuing debt will increase, having an adverse effect on its net results. Certain institutional investors may also be
obliged to withdraw their deposits from ING following a downgrade, which could have an adverse effect on our liquidity. We have
credit ratings from S&P, Moody’s Investor Service and Fitch Ratings. Each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings and rating
methodologies on a recurring basis and may decide on a downgrade at any time.
Furthermore, ING Bank’s assets are risk-weighted. Downgrades of these assets could result in a higher risk-weighting, which may result
in higher capital requirements. This may impact net earnings and the return on capital, and may have an adverse impact on our
competitive position.
As rating agencies continue to evaluate the financial services industry, it is possible that rating agencies will heighten the level of
scrutiny that they apply to financial institutions, increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, request additional
information from the companies that they rate and potentially adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the
rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. It is possible that the outcome of any such review of us would have
additional adverse ratings consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition
and liquidity. We may need to take actions in response to changing standards or capital requirements set by any of the rating
agencies, which could cause our business and operations to suffer. We cannot predict what additional actions rating agencies may
take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies.

Because we use assumptions to model client behaviour for the purpose of our market risk calculations, the difference
between the realisation and the assumptions may have an adverse impact on the risk figures and future results.

We use assumptions in order to model client behaviour for the risk calculations in our banking books. Assumptions are used to
determine the interest rate risk profile of savings and current accounts and to estimate the embedded option risk in the mortgage and
investment portfolios. The realisation or use of different assumptions to determine client behaviour could have a material adverse
effect on the calculated risk figures and, ultimately, future results.

We may be unable to manage our risks successfully through derivatives.

We employ various economic hedging strategies with the objective of mitigating the market risks that are inherent in our
business and operations. These risks include currency fluctuations, changes in the fair value of our investments, the impact
of interest rates, equity markets and credit spread changes, the occurrence of credit defaults and changes in client behaviour. We seek
to control these risks by, among other things, entering into a number of derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and
forward contracts, including, from time to time, macro hedges for parts of our business, either directly as a counterparty or as a credit
support provider to affiliate counterparties. Developing an effective strategy for dealing with these risks is complex, and no strategy
can completely insulate us from risks associated with those fluctuations. Our hedging strategies also rely on assumptions and
projections regarding our assets, liabilities, general market factors and the creditworthiness of our counterparties that may prove to
be incorrect or prove to be inadequate. Accordingly, our hedging activities may not have the desired beneficial impact on our results of
operations or financial condition. Poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could actually increase our risks and
losses. Hedging strategies involve transaction costs and other costs, and if we terminate a hedging arrangement, we may also be
required to pay additional costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs. There have been periods in the past, and it is likely that
there will be periods in the future, during which we have incurred or may incur losses on transactions, possibly significant, after taking
into account our hedging strategies. Further, the nature and timing of our hedging transactions could actually increase our risk and
losses. Hedging instruments we use to manage product and other risks might not perform as intended or expected, which could result
in higher (un)realised losses, such as credit value adjustment risks or unexpected P&L effects, and unanticipated cash needs to
collateralise or settle such transactions. Adverse market conditions can limit the availability and increase the costs of hedging
instruments, and such costs may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products being hedged. In addition, hedging
counterparties may fail to perform their obligations, resulting in unhedged exposures and losses on positions that are not
collateralised. As such, our hedging strategies and the derivatives that we use or may use may not adequately mitigate or offset the
risks they intend to cover, and our hedging transactions may result in losses.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

331

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk factors - continued

Our hedging strategy additionally relies on the assumption that hedging counterparties remain able and willing to provide the hedges
required by our strategy. Increased regulation, market shocks, worsening market conditions (whether due to the ongoing euro crisis or
otherwise), and/or other factors that affect or are perceived to affect the financial condition, liquidity and creditworthiness of ING may
reduce the ability and/or willingness of such counterparties to engage in hedging contracts with us and/or other parties, affecting our
overall ability to hedge our risks and adversely affecting our business, operations, financial condition and liquidity.

Our risk management policies and guidelines may prove inadequate for the risks we face.

We have developed risk management policies and procedures and will continue to review and develop these in the future.
Nonetheless, our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective, particularly during
extremely turbulent times. The methods we use to manage, estimate and measure risk are partly based on historic market behaviour.
The methods may, therefore, prove to be inadequate for predicting future risk exposure, which may be significantly greater than
suggested by historical experience. For instance, these methods may not predict the losses seen in the stressed conditions in recent
periods, and may also not adequately allow prediction of circumstances arising due to government interventions and stimulus
packages, which increase the difficulty of evaluating risks. Other methods for risk management are based on evaluation of information
regarding markets, customers, catastrophic occurrence or other information that is publicly known or otherwise available to us. Such
information may not always be accurate, complete, updated or properly evaluated. Management of operational, compliance, legal
and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record and verify large numbers of transactions and
events. These policies and procedures may not be fully effective.

ING may be exposed to business, operational, regulatory, reputational and other risks in connection with climate
change.

Climate change is a challenge which may expose ING to significant risks. The perception of climate change as a risk by civil society,
shareholders, governments and other stakeholders continues to increase, including in relation to the financial sector’s operations and
strategy, and international actions, such as the Paris agreement on CO2 emissions, may also result in financial institutions coming
under increased pressure from such stakeholders regarding the management and disclosure of their climate risks and related lending
and investment activities. Additionally, rising climate change concerns may lead to additional regulation that could increase our
operating costs or negatively impact the profitability of our investments. There may be substantial costs in complying with current or
future laws and regulations relating to climate change. Any of these risks may result in changes in our business activities or other
liabilities or costs, including exposure to reputational risks, any of which may have a material and adverse impact on our business,
results of operation or financial condition.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

332

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk factors - continued

Operational risks, such as systems disruptions or failures, breaches of security, cyber attacks, human error, changes in
operational practices or inadequate controls including in respect of third parties with which we do business may
adversely impact our business, results of operation and reputation.
We face the risk that the design and operating effectiveness of our controls and procedures may prove to be inadequate.
Operational risks are inherent to our business. Our businesses depend on the ability to process a large number of transactions
efficiently and accurately. In addition, we routinely transmit, receive and store personal, confidential and proprietary information
by email and other electronic means. Although we endeavour to safeguard our systems and processes, losses can result from
inadequately trained or skilled personnel, IT failures (including due to a computer virus or a failure to anticipate or prevent cyber
attacks or other attempts to gain unauthorised access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive
information, corrupting data, or impairing operational performance, or security breaches by third parties), inadequate or failed
internal control processes and systems, regulatory breaches, human errors, employee misconduct, including fraud, or from natural
disasters or other external events that interrupt normal business operations. We depend on the secure processing, storage and
transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. The equipment and software used in our
computer systems and networks may not always be capable of processing, storing or transmitting information as expected.
Despite our business continuity plans and procedures, certain of our computer systems and networks may have insufficient
recovery capabilities in the event of a malfunction or loss of data. We are currently in the process of replacing our IT/operational
systems in some of our subsidiaries as contemplated by our Think Forward strategy and any failure or delay in implementation or
integration of the new IT/operational systems on the anticipated time schedule or a failure of these systems to operate as
anticipated could affect our ability to efficiently serve our clients, process, store or transmit information as well as our ability to
implement our Think Forward strategy in the manner and time frame currently contemplated. Like other financial institutions and
global companies, we are regularly the target of attempted cyber attacks, particularly threats from Distributed Denial of Service
(DDoS), targeted attacks (also called Advanced Persistent Threats) and Ransomware intensify worldwide, and attempts to gain
unauthorised access and the techniques used for such attacks are increasingly sophisticated. We have faced, and expect this trend
to continue, an increasing number of attempted cyber attacks as we have expanded our mobile- and other internet-based products
and services, as well as our usage of mobile and cloud technologies. In addition, due to our interconnectivity with third-party
vendors, exchanges, clearing houses, financial institutions and other third parties, we could be adversely impacted if any of them is
subject to a successful cyber attack or other information security event. Whilst we have policies and processes to protect our
systems and networks, and strive to continuously monitor and develop them to protect our technology infrastructure and data
from misappropriation, they may be vulnerable to unauthorised access, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks
and other external attacks or internal breaches that could have a security impact and jeopardise our confidential information or
that of our clients or our counterparties. These events can potentially result in financial loss and harm to our reputation, hinder our
operational effectiveness, result in regulatory censure, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation,
revenues, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.

Widespread outbreaks of communicable diseases may impact the health of our employees, increasing absenteeism, or may cause a
significant increase in the utilisation of health benefits offered to our employees, either or both of which could adversely impact our
business. In addition, other events including unforeseeable and/or catastrophic events can lead to an abrupt interruption of activities,
and our operations may be subject to losses resulting from such disruptions. Losses can result from destruction or impairment of
property, financial assets, trading positions, and the loss of key personnel. If our business continuity plans are not able to be
implemented, are not effective or do not sufficiently take such events into account, losses may increase further.

We are subject to a variety of regulatory risks as a result of our operations in certain countries.

In certain countries in which we operate, judiciary and dispute resolution systems may be less developed. As a result, in case of a
breach of contract, we may have difficulties in making and enforcing claims against contractual counterparties and, if claims are
made against us, we might encounter difficulties in mounting a defence against such allegations. If we become party to legal
proceedings in a market with an insufficiently developed judicial system, it could have an adverse effect on our operations and net
results.
In addition, as a result of our operations in certain countries, we are subject to risks of possible nationalisation, expropriation, price
controls, exchange controls and other restrictive government actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities and or war, in these
markets. Furthermore, the current economic environment in certain countries in which we operate may increase the likelihood for
regulatory initiatives to enhance consumer protection or to protect homeowners from foreclosures. Any such regulatory initiative
could have an adverse impact on our ability to protect our economic interest, for instance in the event of defaults on residential
mortgages.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

333

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk factors - continued

ING Group may be unable to retain key personnel.

As a financial services enterprise with a decentralised management structure, ING Group relies to a considerable extent on the quality
of local management in the various countries in which it operates. The success of ING Group’s operations is dependent, among other
things, on its ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for key personnel in most countries in which ING
Group operates is intense. ING Group’s ability to attract and retain key personnel, in particular in areas such as technology and
operational management, client relationship management, finance, risk and product development, is dependent on a number of
factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent.
As part of their responses to the financial crisis of 2008, the EC and national governments throughout Europe have introduced and are
expected to continue introducing various legislative initiatives that aim to ensure that financial institutions’ remuneration policies and
practices are consistent with and promote sound and effective risk management, and impose restrictions on the remuneration of
personnel, with a focus on risk alignment of performance-related remuneration. Such initiatives include, among others, measures set
out in Directive 2013/36/EU (CRD IV), the Guidelines on Remuneration Policies and Practices published by (the predecessor of) the
European Banking Authority, the Regulation of the DNB on Sound Remuneration Policies (Regeling beheerst beloningsbeleid Wft 2014),
the Dutch law with respect to the limitation of liability of the DNB and AFM and the prohibition of the payment of variable
remuneration to board members and day-to-day policy makers of financial institutions that receive state aid (Wet
aansprakelijkheidsbeperking DNB en AFM en bonusverbod staatsgesteunde ondernemingen) and the Dutch Law on Remuneration
Policies of Financial Undertakings (Wet beloningsbeleid financiële ondernemingen, Wbfo). Currently, implementation of the CRD IV rules
varies significantly across the various Member States. The proportionality principle that allows for a minimum threshold for deferrals
and pay-out in financial instruments to identified staff is applied differently in the various European countries. For instance, in the
Netherlands a threshold of € 10.000 is applied; in Germany € 50.000; in Belgium € 75.000 and in the UK £500.000. This creates a
situation where there is no level playing field. In addition, the Wbfo has introduced a variable remuneration cap of 20% of base salary
for employees working in the financial sector in the Netherlands. Employees can be exempted and receive variable remuneration up
to the Wbfo individual cap of 100%, provided that the average pay-out for the whole group does not exceed 20% of the collective base
salaries. For this group, as well as for persons working outside the Netherlands, exceptions are possible, in line with CRD IV, but only
under strict conditions. In addition, the Wbfo limits exit compensation, retention compensation and guaranteed variable
remuneration. The introduction of the Wbfo has created an unlevel playing field in the Netherlands for ING due to the fact that branch
offices in the Netherlands of financial institutions that fall under CRD IV (i.e. that have their corporate seat in another EER country) are
not limited to the 20% cap but can apply to the higher CRD IV caps (e.g. 100%, or up to 200% with shareholder approval).
Since the financial crisis, ING has adapted its remuneration policies to the new national and international standards. Since the full
repayment of the state aid by ING in 2014, the total direct compensation for the Executive Board members has been slightly
increased, however, it remains below the median of our EURO Stoxx 50 benchmark, which is made up of similar European financial and
non-financial institutions. The total direct compensation of the CEO is significantly below the median of the CEO benchmark.
The (increasing) restrictions on remuneration will continue to have an impact on existing ING Group remuneration policies and
individual remuneration packages for personnel. This may restrict our ability to offer competitive compensation compared with
companies (financial and/or non-financial) that are not subject to such restrictions and it could adversely affect ING Group’s ability to
retain or attract key personnel.

We may incur further liabilities in respect of our defined benefit retirement plans if the value of plan assets is not
sufficient to cover potential obligations, including as a result of differences between results and underlying actuarial
assumptions and models.

ING Group companies operate various defined benefit retirement plans covering a number of our employees. The liability recognised in
our consolidated balance sheet in respect of our defined benefit plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the
balance sheet date, less the fair value of each plan’s assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial gains and losses
and unrecognised past service costs. We determine our defined benefit plan obligations based on internal and external actuarial
models and calculations using the projected unit credit method. Inherent in these actuarial models are assumptions, including
discount rates, rates of increase in future salary and benefit levels, mortality rates, trend rates in health care costs, consumer price
index, and the expected return on plan assets. These assumptions are based on available market data and the historical performance
of plan assets, and are updated annually. Nevertheless, the actuarial assumptions may differ significantly from actual results due to
changes in market conditions, economic and mortality trends and other assumptions. Any changes in these assumptions could have a
significant impact on our present and future liabilities to and costs associated with our defined benefit retirement plans.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

334

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk factors - continued

Adverse publicity, claims and allegations, litigation and regulatory investigations and sanctions may have a material
adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects.

We are involved in governmental, regulatory, arbitration and legal proceedings and investigations involving claims by and against us
which arise in the ordinary course of our businesses, including in connection with our activities as financial services provider, employer,
investor and taxpayer. Financial reporting irregularities involving other large and well-known companies, possible findings of
government authorities in various jurisdictions which are investigating several rate-setting processes, notifications made by
whistleblowers, increasing regulatory and law enforcement scrutiny of ‘know your customer’ anti-money laundering, tax evasion,
prohibited transactions with countries or persons subject to sanctions, and bribery or other anti-corruption measures and antiterrorist-financing procedures and their effectiveness, regulatory investigations of the banking industry, and litigation that arises from
the failure or perceived failure by us to comply with legal, regulatory, tax and compliance requirements could result in adverse
publicity and reputational harm, lead to increased regulatory supervision, affect our ability to attract and retain customers and
maintain access to the capital markets, result in cease and desist orders, claims, enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal
penalties, other disciplinary action or have other material adverse effects on us in ways that are not predictable. Some claims and
allegations may be brought by or on behalf of a class and claimants may seek large or indeterminate amounts of damages, including
compensatory, liquidated, treble and punitive damages. See ‘—ING is exposed to the risk of claims from customers who feel misled or
treated unfairly because of advice or information received’. Our reserves for litigation liabilities may prove to be inadequate. Claims
and allegations, should they become public, need not be well founded, true or successful to have a negative impact on our reputation.
In addition, press reports and other public statements that assert some form of wrongdoing could result in inquiries or investigations
by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials, and responding to these inquiries and investigations, regardless of their
ultimate outcome, is time consuming and expensive. Adverse publicity, claims and allegations, litigation and regulatory investigations
and sanctions may have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations, financial condition and/or
prospects in any given period. For additional information, see the ‘Financial Economic Crime’ paragraphs in the ‘Risk categories’ part
within the Compliance Risk in the Risk Management section in the annual report of ING Group. With respect to specific proceedings, see
Note 45 ‘Legal proceedings’ to the consolidated financial statements.

We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims by third parties,
which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

In the conduct of our business, we rely on a combination of contractual rights with third parties and copyright, trademark, trade
name, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we endeavour to protect our rights,
third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights,
trademarks, trade names, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. In that event,
we may be required to incur significant costs, and our efforts may not prove successful. The inability to secure or protect our
intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete.
We may also be subject to claims made by third parties for (1) patent, trademark or copyright infringement, (2) breach of copyright,
trademark or licence usage rights, or (3) misappropriation of trade secrets. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in
significant expense and liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other
intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers
or from utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licences. Alternatively, we
could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or to implement a costly workaround. Any of these
scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

ING is exposed to the risk of claims from customers who feel misled or treated unfairly because of advice or
information received.

Our banking products and advice services for third-party products are exposed to claims from customers who might allege that they
have received misleading advice or other information from advisers (both internal and external) as to which products were most
appropriate for them, or that the terms and conditions of the products, the nature of the products or the circumstances under which
the products were sold, were misrepresented to them. When new financial products are brought to the market, ING engages in a
multidisciplinary product approval process in connection with the development of such products, including production of appropriate
marketing and communication materials. Notwithstanding these processes, customers may make claims against ING if the products
do not meet their expectations. Customer protection regulations, as well as changes in interpretation and perception by both the
public at large and governmental authorities of acceptable market practices, influence customer expectations.
Products distributed through person-to-person sales forces have a higher exposure to such claims as the sales forces provide face-toface financial planning and advisory services. Complaints may also arise if customers feel that they have not been treated reasonably
or fairly, or that the duty of care has not been complied with. While a considerable amount of time and resources have been invested
in reviewing and assessing historical sales practices and products that were sold in the past, and in the maintenance of risk
management, legal and compliance procedures to monitor current sales practices, there can be no assurance that all of the issues
associated with current and historical sales practices have been or will be identified, nor that any issues already identified will not be
more widespread than presently estimated.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

335

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Risk factors - continued

The negative publicity associated with any sales practices, any compensation payable in respect of any such issues and regulatory
changes resulting from such issues, has had and could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, revenues, results of
operations, financial condition and prospects. For additional information with respect to specific proceedings, see Note 45 ‘Legal
proceedings’ to the consolidated financial statements.

Additional risks relating to ownership of ING shares
The share price of ING shares has been, and may continue to be, volatile.

Our share price has experienced periods of volatility in the past, and the price and trading volume of our shares may be subject to
significant fluctuations in the future, due, in part, to changes in our actual or forecast operating results and the inability to fulfil the
profit expectations of securities analysts, as well as to the high volatility in the securities markets generally and more particularly in
shares of financial institutions.
Other factors, besides our financial results, that may impact our share price include, but are not limited to:
• market expectations of the performance and capital adequacy of financial institutions in general;
• investor perception of the success and impact of our strategies;
• investor perception of our positions and risks;
• a downgrade or review of our credit ratings;
• potential litigation, investigations or regulatory action involving ING or sectors that we have exposure to;
• announcements concerning financial problems or any investigations into the accounting practices of other financial institutions;
and
• general market circumstances.

There can be no assurance that we will pay dividends on our Ordinary Shares in the future.

It is ING’s policy to pay dividends in relation to the long-term underlying development of cash earnings. Dividends can only be declared
by shareholders when the Executive Board considers such dividends appropriate, taking into consideration the financial conditions
then prevailing and the longer-term outlook. The Executive Board proposes to pay a total dividend of EUR 2,603 million, or EUR 0.67
per ordinary share, over the financial year 2017. This is subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in May
2018. Taking into account the interim dividend of EUR 0.24 per ordinary share paid in August 2017, the final dividend will amount to
EUR 0.43 per ordinary share and be paid in cash. However, there can be no assurance that we will pay dividends in the future.

Holders of ING shares may experience dilution of their holdings.

The issuance of equity securities resulting primarily from the conversion of some or all of such instruments would dilute the ownership
interests of existing holders of ING shares and such dilution could be substantial. Additionally, any conversion, or the anticipation of
the possibility of a conversion, could depress the market price of ING shares.
Furthermore, we may undertake future equity offerings with or without subscription rights. In case of equity offerings with
subscription rights, holders of ING shares in certain jurisdictions, however, may not be entitled to exercise such rights unless the rights
and the related shares are registered or qualified for sale under the relevant legislation or regulatory framework. Holders of ING shares
in these jurisdictions may suffer dilution of their shareholding should they not be permitted to, or otherwise chose not to, participate in
future equity offerings with subscription rights.

Because we are incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands and many of the members of our Supervisory and
Executive Board and our officers reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult to enforce judgments against
ING or the members of our Supervisory and Executive Boards or our officers.

Most of our Supervisory Board members, our Executive Board members and some of the experts named in this Annual Report, as well
as many of our officers are persons who are not residents of the United States, and most of our and their assets are located outside
the United States. As a result, investors may not be able to serve process on those persons within the United States or to enforce in the
United States judgments obtained in US courts against us or those persons based on the civil liability provisions of the US securities
laws.
Investors also may not be able to enforce judgments of US courts under the US federal securities laws in courts outside the United
States, including the Netherlands. The United States and the Netherlands do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal
recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, we may not be
able to enforce in the Netherlands a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any US federal or state court based on civil
liability, even if the judgment is not based only on the US federal securities laws, unless a competent court in the Netherlands gives
binding effect to the judgment.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

336

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Non-financial appendix
Reporting principles

We aspire to present a balanced and comprehensive overview of our financial and non-financial performance. We disclose data on our
financial performance and on the impact of our organisation on society and the environment. We report performance data on areas
of our business and operations where we can have a material impact both inside the organisation and externally. The Executive Board
and the Supervisory Board are the highest bodies to review and approve our Annual Report, including disclosure on all material topics.
The high-priority material topics identified and disclosed in our materiality analysis are reported on in the relevant sections of the
Annual Report, including this appendix. For a detailed description of data-gathering scope and process on specific data points,
please refer to the ING Non-financial Data Reporting Protocol www.ing.com/ar2017. This provides the definitions on performance
indicators and describes the internal data collection process.

Progress report

Following is a summary of non-financial performance highlights for 2017.
Progress highlights
Our goals

Our performance in 2017

Accelerating financial empowerment

Accelerating financial empowerment

• We aim to achieve a number one net promoter score (NPS) ranking
compared to our main competitors in each of our retail banking
markets.

• We achieved number one Net Promoter Scores (NPS) in seven of our
13 major retail markets. a

• We achieved our 2020 target to reach 25 million people and our new • Financial empowerment interactions with customers and nonambition is to reach 34 million people by 2022.
customers increased in 2017 to 25.4 million (23.9 million in 2016).

a

•T
 hrough our ‘Power for Youth’ partnership with UNICEF, we aim to
• By year-end 2017, the Power for Youth partnership reached over
reach 335,000 adolescents in six developing countries by 2018,
206,000 adolescents in six developing countries.
helping them to develop the social and financial knowledge and skills
needed to build a brighter future.
Responsible Finance

Responsible Finance

•W
 e aim to increase our sustainable assets under management
(SAuM).

• At the end of 2017, sustainable assets under management (SAuM)
for customers were EUR 4,752 million, up from EUR 3,306 million in
2016.

•W
 e set an ambition to increase lending twofold to Industry ESG
Leaders, Climate Finance and Social Impact Finance each by
2022 compared to 2017.

• As at year-end 2017, our baseline reporting year, we recorded
lending outstandings of EUR 5.5 billion to Industry Environmental,
Social and Governance (ESG) leaders, EUR 14.6 billion to companies
and sectors in our Climate Finance portfolio and EUR 0.5 billion in
Social Impact Finance.

People

People

•O
 ur employee engagement score is above 70% (bi-annual).

• ING achieved an overall engagement score of 77% in 2016. The next
employee engagement survey will take place in 2018.

•W
 e aim to invest further in the personal and professional
development of our employees.

• EUR 76 million was spent on training and development in 2017

Improving environmental performance

Improving environmental performance

•W
 e will reduce our global CO2e emissions by 30% by 2017 and 50%
by 2020 (compared to 2014).

• The total extrapolated amount of carbon emissions decreased to 64
kilotonne CO2e from 74 in 2016 and has reduced 37% since 2014.

• We will procure 100% renewable electricity for all ING buildings where • Our share of renewable electricity increased to 95% of our total
we have management control worldwide by 2020.
global electricity use, compared to 91% a year earlier.

Sustainability governance

Our Global Head of Sustainability reports directly to the Vice-Chairman of the Management Board Banking of ING Bank. Via the Global
Sustainability department, responsibilities are cascaded through various business units to subject-matter experts who help develop
ING’s policies and goals in response to sustainability-driven risks and opportunities, in line with our global Sustainability Direction.
Progress on identified priorities is communicated regularly to the Management Board Banking and to external stakeholders through
ING’s Quarterly Reports. Climate resilience is one of our two main strategic focus areas within our new Sustainability Direction. Within
this focus area, we are addressing both climate-related risks and opportunities across our business and have set various related
ambitions. One such ambition which addresses climate-related opportunities is to double our climate finance portfolio by 2022
against 2017 totals. Responsibility for this ambition falls with the Board member responsible for Wholesale Banking and is cascaded
throughout the organisation in the form of KPIs for deal teams. Another ambition, which addresses climate-related risk, is to reduce
our exposure to coal to close to zero by 2025. Our Management Board is responsible for ensuring that this target is translated to policy
and is adhered to within our risk processes. The Board’s responsibility for social and/or environmental risks and opportunities is also
formalised in our Executive Board Charter, available on www.ing.com/17ar11.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

337

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Non-financial appendix – continued

Understanding what matters the most

Our materiality analysis approach combines quantitative and qualitative research which provides for a holistic understanding of
stakeholder expectations and more effective engagement. a We used a three-year cycle with a quantitative assessment involving
1,500 respondents across five countries and six stakeholder groups in 2015, and qualitative assessments in 2016 and 2017 across
business units. The results of this analysis guide us in our strategic decision-making, stakeholder engagement agenda and reporting
framework.
In 2017, ING chose to update its materiality outcomes by external stakeholder dialogue in Belgium and Germany and internal
stakeholder validation. ING reached out to senior management and seven stakeholder groups: business and retail customers, NGOs,
academics, shareholders, employees and regulators. All were asked to rank the importance of material topics and to find consensus on
one or two action points for ING. They were also asked to comment on emerging topics suggested by ING and to propose new topics.
The results of stakeholder dialogues were complemented with a global media, trend and peer analysis. The final results were validated
by experts from ING’s Global Sustainability department and approved by Management Board Banking.
Our work this year builds on analysis of a long list of issues that either can impact or can be impacted by our business and strategy,
as well as an external stakeholder dialogue conducted in the Netherlands a year earlier. The long list of issues and our engagement
approach align with ING’s risk assessment framework as well as guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB).
Our materiality work in 2017 helped us achieve focus by reducing the number of material topics. In a ‘hygiene’ first step, we
removed the topics ‘regulatory development and compliance’ and ‘anti-competitive behavior prevention’, both relating to regulatory
compliance. Furthermore, the topic ‘trust’ was removed, as we believe we gain trust through our performance on other topics. We then
increased the materiality threshold to create more focused and balance in our reporting. As a result, ‘responsible lending and debt
prevention’ and ‘remuneration of ING employees’ were removed. The former still forms a prominent part of our reporting under the key
performance indicator Responsible Finance of our reporting under the material topic ‘Enhancing customer financial capabilities’.
‘Remuneration of ING employees’ is captured within the remuneration chapter of this Annual Report, GRI content index and
Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR) 2017 Remuneration Disclosure ING Bank N.V disclosure. Disclosures are similar to previous
years. Lastly, we have clustered the topics of ‘Fair communication of products and services’ and ‘Transparency’ as their definitions
overlapped. The boundaries of the material topics remain unchanged.
More information on the process can be found at www.ing.com/17ar17

Economic value generated

ING contributes to the economies of more than 40 countries where we operate. In addition to this, we aim to align the disclosures with
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards.
Economic value generated and distributed from continuing operations
Economic value

in EUR million

Stakeholder group
Suppliers
Employees
Shareholders
Governments
Community

Indicator
Operating cost1
Staff expenses2
Net result from continuing operations3
Corporate income tax and bank taxes4
Total donations

2017

2016

2015

2,382
5,202
4,905
2,661
14.9

2,280
5,039
4,210
1,970
13.6

2,274
4,972
4,466
1,881
12.7

1 Refer to note 26 of the ING Group Consolidated Annual Accounts 2017. Includes: IT-related expenses, office expenses, travel and accommodation expenses,
advertising and public relations, external advisory fees, audit and non-audit services, and postal charges.
2 Refer to note 25 of the ING Group Consolidated Annual Accounts 2017.
3 Refer to the P&L of the ING Group Consolidated Annual Accounts 2017 in the Annual Report 2017.
4 Refer to note 26 and 36 of the ING Group Consolidated Annual Accounts 2017.

Business

Most of ING Bank’s activities serve the financing and investment needs of households and companies, other financial institutions and
governments. We allocate 39.8 percent of our credit risk portfolio to private individuals in the form of mortgages and other types of
loans; this exposure has minimal environmental risk implications. Some 35.7 percent of our assets is allocated to meet the financing
needs of corporates. In response to what stakeholders and society ask of us with regard to transparency, the tables on the next pages
provide insight into the different sectors we finance and the applicability of our Environmental and Social Risk Framework.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

338

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Non-financial appendix – continued

Credit risk portfolio per client segment1
in percentage

2017

ING Bank
Governments
Financial institutions
Corporates
Consumer lending
Other2

9.1%
14.2%
35.7%
39.8%
1.3%

Total

100%

Corporates
Netherlands
Belgium
United States
Poland
United Kingdom
Turkey
ROW3
Total

6.7%
4.9%
3.5%
1.8%
1.6%
1.4%
15.9%
35.7%

1
2
3
4

2017

Governments
Bonds – Germany
Bonds – Netherlands
Bonds – ROW3
Other4

1.3%
1.0%
4.3%
2.4%

Total

9.1%

Consumer lending
Residential mortgages – NL
Residential mortgages – ROW3
Other consumer lending

15.1%
21.8%
3.0%

Total

39.8%

Financial institutions
United Kingdom
Germany
Spain
China
Netherlands
United States
ROW3
Total

2017

2.0%
1.0%
1.1%
1.3%
0.3%
1.3%
7.2%
14.2%

Category totals may deviate from the sum of sub-categories by margins of 0.1 due to rounding-up.
Other segments such as securitisations.
Rest of the world.
Other financial instruments such as term loans and derivatives.

In response to what stakeholders and society ask of us with regard to transparency, the table below provides insight into the different
sectors we finance and the applicability of our Environmental and Social Risk Framework.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

339

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Additional
information

Other
information

Non-financial appendix – continued

Consumer lending

39.8

Financial institutions

14.2

Governments
Other

9.1
1.3

Corporates

35.7

- Real estate

5.7

- Natural resources
- Transportation
& logistics

6.7

- Services
- Food, beverages
& personal care

2.6
2.5

- General industries

2.3

- Builders & contractors
- Chemicals, health
& pharmaceuticals

1.8
1.8

- Other

1.4

- Utilities

1.8

- Media + telecom

1.3

- Retail

1.0

- Automotive

1.1

- Technology

0.6

3.9

•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•

•

•
•
•

•

•
•

•
•

•

Responsible Finance strategy3

Fisheries

•

Ship breaking

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•

•
•

•
•

Pornography2

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•

Nuclear energy

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•

•

Energy (oil and gas, power generation)

•

Chemicals

•
•
•

Manufacturing

•
•
•

•
•

Generic engineering

•
•
•

•
•

Gambling2

•
•

Fur

•
•

•
•

Mining and Metals

•
•

Forestry and Agrocommodities

•
•
•

Equator principles

•
•
•

Defence

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Animal testing

Environmental compliance

Total O/S
2017 (%)

Human rights

in percentage

ING Values

ING Bank credit risk portfolio per economic sector and application of ESR framework1 & Responsible Finance strategy

•
•

•
•
•

•

•

•

•
•
•
•

1 The symbols above each column represent our different ESR framework policies.
2 Gambling and Pornography are excluded activities only and not sector policies.
3 A Responsible Finance sector strategy identifies sustainability-related developments in a specific sector. It outlines how best to pursue the opportunities that arise
from them and provides solutions for best-in-class clients and best practices that are outstanding in their environmental performance relative to their sector.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

340

Report of the
Executive Board

Contents

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Non-financial appendix – continued

Policy into practice
Energy policy

In December 2017, ING decided to accelerate the reduction of our financing to coal power generation, reducing our exposure to close
to zero by 2025. This decision sharpens ING’s coal-financing policy in support of society’s transition to a low-carbon economy. In
practice this means that ING supports new clients in the utilities sector only when their reliance on coal is 10 percent or less and they
have a strategy to reduce their coal percentage to close to zero by 2025. By that year, we expect to no longer finance clients in the
utilities sector that are over 5 percent reliant on coal-fired power in their energy mix. We will however continue to finance non-coal
energy projects for these clients in support of their energy transition.
Overall, given our sharpened policy, we expect to continue to report annual reductions in our overall credit exposure to thermal
coal-related businesses. In terms of exposure to thermal coal we define the categories in the following table:
Thermal coal category
Lending O/S in EUR million

Mining (including coal terminals)
Power generation, coal-fired power plants

Dec 2017

Dec 2016

% change

316
452

455
551

-31%
-18%

In addition, we acknowledge coal being used in the energy mix of Diversified Utility Companies (DUCs) that operate various energy
sources (typically coal, gas, nuclear, and/or renewables) to generate power. Within this category however, the exact energy mix used is
currently not known to ING. ING’s power generation lending portfolio to DUCs reached EUR 2.1 billion at YE2017.
ING’s power generation lending portfolio to Single Energy Sources (SES) clients, transactions supporting a particular energy source
or utility companies operating one single energy source, is EUR 6.9 billion at YE 2017. Within this category, coal-fired power EUR 452
million represents some 6.6 percent of total.
Overall, ING’s power generation lending portfolio (DUCs and SES) is EUR 9.0 billion at YE 2017, an overview of the distribution in sources
being reflected in the chart below.
Power generation portfolio
Total Power Generation lending O/S in EUR million
10000

8000

3,577

4,241
6000

9
4000

2,213

12
1,983
551

452

2000

2,129
0

2017

2,916
2016

Diversiﬁed Utility Companies
Coal
Gas
Oil
Renewables

ING Group Annual Report 2017

341

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Additional
information

Other
information

Non-financial appendix – continued

Applying the Equator Principles (EP)

As an Equator Principles (EP) Financial Institution, we have embedded the EP in our environmental and social policies, procedures and
standards. We do not provide project finance or project-related corporate loans to clients that are unable, or choose not, to comply
with the principles. All transactions in scope of EP are reviewed at least annually, at which time covenant compliance is typically
affirmed. Project names of project finance transactions which reached financial close in the reporting period are published
annually on the Equator Principles website. All project names are disclosed only if ING has received the related client’s consent. See
http://www.equator-principles.com/index.php/members/ing. The EP are embedded in ING’s ESR Framework, and require involvement
of the following three banking areas:
Front Office: departments that originate transactions and have direct contact with the client or project sponsors.
Risk Managers: departments that provide control over Front Office activities and generally sign off on the environmental and social
impacts for ’Low Risk’ or ‘Medium Risk’ EP deals, which generally refer to Category C projects or Category A and B in designated
countries.
Environmental and Social Risk: department within risk management fully dedicated to assessing environmental and social impacts
associated with ’High Risk’ transactions, which in the context of EP generally refer to Category A and B projects in non-designated
countries.
As our risk assessment processes are decentralised, each front-office team must be highly familiar with ING’s Environmental and Social
Risk framework and, in particular, Equator Principles III (EPIII). Hence, ING makes significant investment in internal training programmes
to help front office and risk management staff in assessing the environmental and social risk under EPIII.
The table below provides an overview of EP transactions in accordance with EPIII reporting requirements, which refer to funded deals or
advisory roles that have been mandated to ING in 2017.
EP Application Table 2017
Project Finance
Sector
Infrastructure
Oil & Gas
Other
Power & Utilities
Total

EP risk category1
A
3
1
4

Project-Related Corporate Loans
B
2
2
1
7
12

C
1
2
11
14

Total
3
5
3
19
30

3

0

5

Total
7
4
19
30

A

B
2

C

Total
2
1
2
5

A
2

2
2
4

Country Designation2
Non-Designated Country
Designated Country
Total

A
3
1
4

B
4
8
12

14
14

Total
7
23
30

External Independent Review
No
Yes
Total

A

B
1
11
12

C
3
11
14

Total
4
26
30

4
4

Total
1

2

B
7
1
4
12

C

C

3

A

1
13
14

B

1

Region
Americas
Asia Pacific
Europe Middle East & Africa
Total

C

EP risk category
A
1

1
1
2

1
3

4

0

C

2

B
1
2
3

A
1
1
2

B
2
1
3

C

0

0

Total
3
2
5
Total
3
2
5

1 Category A – Projects with potential significant adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented;
Category B – Projects with potential limited adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific, largely reversible
and readily addressed through mitigation measures; and Category C – Projects with minimal or no adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts.
2 Equator Principles definition of Designated Country available at http://equator-principles.com/designated-countries/.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

342

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Non-financial appendix – continued

Project Finance Advisory

ING was mandated on one Project Finance Advisory service in the sector ‘Other’ for a project located in the ’Europe Middle East &
Africa’ region.

Implementing the TCFD Recommendations
Climate change risks and opportunities

ING is committed to working with clients and stakeholders to support a smooth, orderly and just transition. We recognise that the
projects and businesses we finance could potentially have a negative impact on the environment. That is why we employ strict ESR
policies, where climate-related risks are embedded, and have set the ambition to grow our climate finance portfolio. We have also
taken a firm role in advocating for change and transparency, for example via endorsement of the recommendations of the Taskforce
on climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), set up by the Financial Stability Board.
The TCFD structured its recommendations around four core elements of the way in which organisations operate: governance, strategy,
risk management, and metrics and targets. The voluntary guidance applies to large corporates in all sectors, with supplemental
guidance for the financial sector including banks, insurance, asset managers and owners, and non-financial but potentially highimpact sectors including energy, transportation, materials and buildings, and agriculture, food and forestry. The recommendations are
intended to encourage transparent disclosure of current and potential climate-related risks in organisations’ annual statements. The
disclosure of forward-looking indicators will better inform financial markets of short-, medium- and long-term risks related to climate
change.

Our climate change governance

Climate resilience is one of our two main strategic focus areas within our new Sustainability Direction, which is overseen by the Vice
Chairman/CFO of ING. Within this focus area, we are addressing both climate-related risks and opportunities across our business and
have set various related ambitions. One such ambition which addresses climate-related opportunities is to double our climate finance
portfolio by 2022 against 2017 totals (see p. 35). Responsibility for this ambition falls with the Board member responsible for Wholesale
Banking and is cascaded throughout the organisation in the form of KPIs for deal teams. Another ambition, which addresses climaterelated risk, is to reduce our exposure to coal to close to zero by 2025. Our Management Board, chiefly the CRO, is responsible for
ensuring that this target is embedded in risk processes and achieved. The Board’s responsibility for social and/or environmental risks
and opportunities is also formalised in our Executive Board Charter available on www.ing.com/17ar11.
The Board provides approval of new ING policies and/or targets based on the advice from ESR and Group Sustainability. Further, the
board mandates action on external developments, including the TCFD recommendations, and engages external stakeholders on
climate-related risks and opportunities.

Our climate change strategy

ING is committed continuously to review and monitor its policies and strategies as new risks and opportunities emerge, for example
related to energy transition. For this reason, our ESR policies are updated regularly and our ESR framework is reviewed every three
years. As a result of transition risk and our commitment to combat climate change, ING further sharpened its coal policy in 2017,
pledging to a strategy for reducing thermal coal exposure to close to zero by 2025. (Read more on p. 47)
Transition risk is not the only concern facing the market. The physical risks inherent to climate change must be avoided. That is why
ING supports the goals of the Paris Agreement. ING is continuing the effort to measure the climate impact of its lending portfolio. In
2016, we ran a pilot with an external consultant to calculate the emissions related to two specific lending portfolios and to estimate
the emissions related to our total lending services portfolio within Wholesale Banking. As reported in our 2016 annual report, the
results were not accurate enough to be published and there is still no market standard for measuring financed emissions . ING
therefore intensified the search for the right metrics and methods and has decided to partner with the 2˚ Investing Initiative to test a
new approach that could allow science-based target setting in the years to come. Furthermore, ING is one of the main sponsors of the
Science-based Targets Initiative working group to support the development of methods for the Financial Sector in partnership with the
World Resources Institute (WRI), World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and CDP.

Improving our climate-related disclosures

We believe transparency will encourage investors and banks to shift to more low-carbon and climate-smart options as companies
become more open about reporting on the current and potential financial implications of climate change – an important step towards
delivering on the commitments of the Paris Agreement to keep global warming below two degrees Celsius.
As such, ING will be a user of the data that will come online as our clients start implementing the recommendations. However ING is
also committed to aligning its own disclosures with the final TCFD recommendations as a ‘preparer’. It is estimated that it will take
several years for companies like ING and its clients to be able to align fully with the recommendations. In fact, it is only as our clients
start to disclose more completely that we can use that data for our own analyses and disclosures. However, we are not waiting for a
perfect world before we take action.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

343

Report of the
Executive Board

Contents

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Non-financial appendix – continued

The table below outlines how ING has addressed climate-related risk and opportunity disclosures in its 2017 Annual Report and where
you can read more about this.
In the coming year, we will work to strengthen the governance, processes, and ambitions and disclosures surrounding climate-related
risk and opportunity management, but are well-positioned to take this forward given our past and current efforts to integrate the ESR
framework and Climate Finance approaches within the business.

Metrics and Targets

Risk Management

Strategy

Governance

FSB TCFD Recommendations
TCFD Recommended Disclosures

ING 2017 Annual report and other Public Disclosure

A

Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and
opportunities.

	Non-financial appendix, Sustainability governance,
p. 337
Non-financial appendix, Climate change governance,
p. 343
> Executive Board Charter, www.ing.com/17ar11

B

Describe management’s role in assessing and managing
climate-related risks and opportunities.

Non-financial appendix, Sustainability governance,
p. 337
Non-financial appendix, Climate change governance,
p. 343

A

Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the
organisation has identified over the short, medium, and
long term.

The world around us, Societal challenges, p. 10
The world around us, What matters most to our stakeholders,
p. 11

B

Describe the impact of climate-related risks and
opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy,
and financial planning.

The world around us, Financing energy vs climate change,
p. 14
Non-financial appendix, Climate change strategy,
p. 343

C

Describe the resilience of the organisation’s strategy,
taking into consideration different climate-related
scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.

Analysis is in development.

A

Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and
assessing climate-related risks.

Risk and capital management, Environmental and Social Risk
management, p. 46
Non-financial appendix, Applying the Equator Principles (EP),
p. 342
Financial risk analysis is in development.

B

Describe the organisation’s processes for managing
climate-related risks.
>

C

Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and
managing climate-related risks are integrated into the
organisation’s overall risk management.

A

Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess
climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its
strategy and risk management process.

B

Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks.

C

Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage
climate-related risks and opportunities and performance
against targets.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

344

Risk and capital management, Environmental and Social Risk
Management, p. 46
Non-financial appendix, Environmental and Social Risk
framework and Equator Principles, p. 346
www.ing.com/17ar18
Risk and capital management, Environmental and Social Risk
management, p. 46
	In development, see Non-financial appendix, Climate change
strategy, p. 343
Non-financial appendix, Environment, p. 349

Our business, Responsible finance, p. 35
	Risk and capital management, Environmental and Social Risk
management, (Thermal Coal Policy) p. 47
> Non-financial appendix, Environment, p. 349
www.ing.com/17ar19

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Non-financial appendix – continued

Responsible Finance

Responsible Finance is a set of strengthened ambitions replacing our Sustainable Transitions Financed (STF) portfolio ambition. We aim
to double our funding to companies and sectors that are making a significant contribution to the low-carbon and self-reliant society of
the future. We will do this by increasing our Climate Finance portfolio twofold by 2022 compared to 2017. We will also double our Social
Impact finance by lending to projects that lead to, for example, basic infrastructure or essential services. And we will double lending to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) Industry Leaders by 2022 compared to 2017. The tables below provide a breakdown of our
Environmental and Social Impact Finance as of December 2017.
Climate Finance1
2017

in EUR million as of Dec 2017

Energy transition
Low-carbon buildings
Energy efficiency
Transport
Waste management
Information Technology and Communications
Water (including climate adaptation)
Other climate finance
Total

4,071
9,283
161
745
50
89
62
154
14,619

1 Circular Economy is also one of the sub-categories under Climate Finance, however, as of year-end 2017, our exposure to Circular Economy was nominal. For a
complete overview of our definitions and methodology for our Climate Finance indicator and sub-categories, please see our Non-Financial Data Reporting Protocol
available on ING.com.

Social Impact Finance1
2017

in EUR million as of Dec 2017

Basic Infrastructure
Essential Services
Total

239
228
468

1 Affordable Housing, Food Security, Community Development and Financial Access and Microfinance are additional sub-categories under Social Impact Finance,
however, as of year-end 2017, our exposure to these sub-categories was nominal or zero. For a complete overview of our definitions and methodology for our
Social Impact Finance indicator and sub-categories, please see our Non-Financial Data Reporting Protocol available on ING.com.

Sustainable Investments

ING has provided customers with sustainable investment (SI) solutions since 1999. These can be dedicated portfolios, structured
products or investment funds, and cover all asset classes. SI is available to customers in Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany and the
Netherlands.
Sustainable Assets under Management
in EUR million
5000

4000

4,752

308
3000

2000

3,306

1000

0

Baseline

1,138

2017

Net growth (improved assessment)1

3,306
459
274

2,573

2,573

2,573

2016

2015

Net growth (new business)2

1 Net growth (improved assessment) 2017: EUR 308 million
Net growth attributed to improved processes,
methodology and assessment scope for identifying SAuM
within our existing portfolio.
2 Net growth (new business) 2017: EUR 1,138 million

Total Investments ING Groenbank
In EUR million as of Dec 2017

ING Groenbank N.V.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

345

2017

2016

2015

772

745

875

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Non-financial appendix – continued

Our people

In the past three years we have been making progress in our Human Capital return on investment (HC ROI), which shows ING’s
profitability in relation to total employee costs. This ratio helps ING to identify the influence of HR contributions, such as performance
management, training and development, automation and organisational structures, on the bank’s profitability. In 2017, our HC ROI
indicator totalled EUR 2.51, compared to EUR 2.59 in 2016, EUR 2.48 in 2015 and EUR 2.30 in 2014.
The following data tables provide a performance overview across key Human Resource-related topics. Further information is available
in ‘Our people’ chapter.
Budget training and development employees1
2017
In EUR million

ING

761

Per FTE
1,335

2016

Per FTE
1,325

In EUR million

70

2015
In EUR million

68

Per FTE
1,279

1 Refer to note 25 of the ING Group Consolidated Annual Accounts 2017.

Training
2017

2016

2015

Number of trainings
completed x 1,000

Number of trainings
completed x 1,000

Number of trainings
completed x 1,000

61.9
0.2
245.2
20.2
10.9
338.4

73.2
0.6
327.8
23.1
31.1
455.9

133.2
5.4
339.6
33.3
14.9
526.4

in numbers of trainings completed

Classroom
On-the-job training
Online
Program
Other
Total1

1 The decline in the number of trainings is attributed to the increased use of learning content portals. These portals support single sign-on for multiple trainings.

Leavers and turnover rate1 (headcount)
Leavers
Voluntary
Involuntary
Not recorded

2017

2016

2015

3,141
2,654
1

3,265
3,446
5

2,945
3,042
1

Total

5,796

6,716

5,988

10.6

12.0

11.0

in percentage of employees

2017

2016

2015

ING Bank

59.0

60.7

59.5

2017

2016

2015

99

99

97

Turnover rate %
1 Total leavers headcount in 2017 divided by headcount on 1 January 2017.

Percentage of employees covered by Collective Bargaining (headcount)

Percentage of employees that have undergone a performance management process (headcount)
in percentage of employees

ING Bank

ING Group Annual Report 2017

346

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Additional
information

Other
information

Non-financial appendix – continued

Total workforce gender breakdown (headcount)
2017

Female
49.1

in percentage of employees

ING Bank

2016

Male
50.8

Female
49.5

2015

Male
50.5

Female
49.7

Male
50.3

Total workforce breakdown (headcount)
Gender
Female
Male

2017

2016

2015

26,644
27,605

27,055
27,655

27,266
27,566

Not recorded
Total

53
54,302

27
54,737

41
54,873

FT / PT status
Full-time
Part-time
Not recorded
Total

48,397
5,874
31
54,302

48,309
6,390
38
54,737

48,109
6,750
14
54,873

Geographical region
Asia
Australia
Belgium
Netherlands
North America
Rest of Europe
South- and Mid-America
Total

6,650
1,182
8,812
14,087
579
22,891
101
54,302

6,827
1,122
9,551
14,614
539
21,996
88
54,737

6,842
1,059
10,005
15,080
500
21,323
64
54,873

Age group
< 30
30 – 50
> 50
Not recorded
Total

2017

2016

2015

9,785
35,365
9,122
30
54,302

9,603
35,339
9,096
699
54,737

9,673
36,148
9,042
10
54,873

Perm / Temp on ING contract
Permanent
Temporary

52,324
1,978

53,218
1,519

53,454
1,419

Total

54,302

54,737

54,873

Total number of employees by ING employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender (headcount)
2017
Number of employees

Permanent
Temporary

Female
25,529
1,115

Male
26,747
858

Not recorded
48
5

Total
52,324
1,978

Total number of employees by ING employment contract (full-time and part-time), by gender (headcount)
2017
Number of employees

Full-time
Part-time
Not recorded

Female
21,695
4,940
9

Male
26,657
932
16

Unknown
45
2
6

Total
48,397
5,874
31

Total number of employees by ING employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region (headcount)
2017
Number of employees

Asia
Australia
Belgium
Netherlands
North America
Rest of Europe
South- and Mid-America

Permanent
6,615
1,138
8,503
13,382
579
22,006
101

Temporary
35
44
309
705
0
885
0

Total
6,650
1,182
8,812
14,087
579
22,891
101

Sickness and absenteeism (headcount)
in percentage of employees

2017

2016

2015

ING Bank

3.96

3.90

3.69

ING Group Annual Report 2017

347

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Additional
information

Other
information

Non-financial appendix – continued

Community Investment

The tables below provide an overview of charitable donations by ING and volunteering of ING employees.
Total donations ALL
in EUR thousands

ING Bank
Direct business donations
Facilitated by ING

Donations business
Donations business in-kind
Donations customers
Donations employees

Total

2017

2016

2015

12,323
721
1,091
785
14,921

11,248
847
740
728
13,563

10,325
615
964
806
12,710

Total donations (incl. business, customer and employee) and volunteering hours
Total donations incl. business,
customer and employees
(in EUR thousands)
Arts & Culture
Education1
Emergency relief
Environment
Financial Empowerment1,2
Health
Social welfare
Other
Total

Volunteering hours
(in hours)

2017

2016

2015

2017

2016

2015

844
2,322
222
167
6,939
1,593
2,020
812

845
2,150
159
136
4,881
1,911
1,725
1,757

686
5,235
246
543
1,777
1,964
1,095
1,164

225
15,756
42
7,710
5,775
3,136
7,777
738

365
8,087
0
5,484
13,209
1,979
18,999
161

347
14,614
473
6,848
6,129
990
11,259
552

14,921

13,563

12,710

41,158

48,284

41,212

1 In 2015, the category ‘education’ included the donations and volunteering hours for UNICEF. In 2016 and 2017, this is reported under the ‘Financial empowerment’
category.
2 In 2015, this category was reported as ‘Financial Education and Entrepreneurship’.

Charitable donations to UNICEF
in EUR thousands

Donation
Cumulative total since 2005

2017

2016

2015

4,419
39,918

2,988
35,499

3,059
32,511

Reach through UNICEF programmes1
Adolescents reached2
Cumulative Total

2017

2016

2015

79,0613
206,498

80,020
127,437

47,4174
47,417

1 We achieved our target of reaching 1 million children through UNICEF education programmes in 2005-2015. Since 2015 we are supporting a new UNICEF
programme, Power for Youth, that aims to empower 335,000 adolescents by 2018. The Power for Youth programme is active in six countries: Indonesia, Kosovo,
Montenegro, Nepal, The Philippines and Zambia.
2 Adolescence is the period in human growth and development that occurs from ages 10 to 19.
3 The reported number consists of adolescents reached from January 2017 to June 2017.
4 The reported number consists of adolescents reached from July 2015 to December 2015.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

348

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Additional
information

Other
information

Non-financial appendix – continued

Environmental Performance

Our activities impact the environment we operate in - both directly, through the operations of our buildings, IT systems and business
travel, but also indirectly, through our lending portfolio and through our procurement supply chains. We are committed to reducing
this impact and work closely with customers and suppliers to take advantage of opportunities within the low-carbon and resourceefficient economy of the future. Our Environmental Approach describes how we are managing our direct and indirect environmental
impacts as well as how we mitigate risks and create and seize opportunities. Our approach also outlines our 2020 targets for improving
our operational eco-efficiency, namely:
•
•
•
•

We will reduce our CO2e emissions by 50% by 2020 (base year 2014).
We will reduce global residual waste by 20% by 2020 (base year 2014): achieved in 2017.
We will reduce our water footprint by 20% by 2020 (base year 2014).
We will remain carbon neutral by off-setting operational carbon emissions.

Our objectives and targets concerning our operational environmental impact are managed through the ING Environmental
Programme, which has established a robust Environmental Management System (EMS) that ensures effective processes and continual
improvement of our performance. In 2017, ING maintained its ISO14001 EMS certification for head-office operations in the
Netherlands. Our EMS, which applies globally, has helped us to make progress against our 2020 targets. Relative to our base year, our
carbon footprint was reduced by 37% in 2017 as a result of increasing our renewable electricity consumption to 95% of total electricity
consumption and by reducing global energy consumption by 23% compared to 2014. Our residual waste was reduced by 45% in 2017
relative to our base year meaning we achieved our 2020 residual waste reduction target. This was achieved through a 25% increase in
recycling activities and a 37% reduction in paper consumption since 2014.
We also maintained carbon-neutral operations in 2017 by offsetting emissions caused by business travel and grey energy use. We
offset 100% of our operational carbon emissions through the purchase of Voluntary Carbon Units (VCUs), with the majority originating
from a high impact REDD+ project in Borneo. This project preserves carbon-dense tropical peat swamp by helping to halt deforestation
of roughly 47,000 hectares of forest which were originally slated for conversion to palm oil plantations. The project focuses on both
community development and biodiversity conservation, particularly the protection of the endangered Borneo orangutan. In order to
deliver on its goals, the project actively engages local communities to improve food security, water conservation, income opportunities,
health care and education. In addition to conservation, the project also engages in land enrichment activities with a goal to plant one
million trees. The Rimba Raya project is verified and validated to the Verified Carbon Standard (VCS), and has achieved Gold Level
status under the Climate Community and Biodiversity (CCB) Standard.
Breakdown of energy consumption
Coverage (% of employees)
In MWh and kilotonne CO2e

MWh
x 1.000

Electricity
Renewable electricity
Natural gas
Fuel oil
District heating
Total energy

Total energy per FTE in MWh and in tonne

2017

2016

98

96

12
214
65
2
22
315

Kilotonne
5
0
15
1
5
25

6.0

0.5

MWh
x 1.000

23
236
83
3
22
367

Kilotonne
9
0
19
1
5
34

6.9

0.6

2015

95
MWh
x 1.000

38
240
88
4
15
385

Kilotonne
28
0
20
1
3
53

7.3

1.0

Kilometers and carbon emissions through business travel1
Coverage (% of employees)
In kilometres and kilotonne CO2e

Total travel
Total travel carbon per FTE in tonne

KM
x 1 million
246
-

1 Business travel comprises travel by air and by road for business purposes only.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

349

2017

2016

98

98

Kilotonne
30
0.6

KM
x 1 million
227
–

Kilotonne
29
0.5

2015

89

KM
x 1 million
215
–

Kilotonne
29
0.5

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Non-financial appendix – continued

Carbon emissions extrapolated
2017

2016

2015

Coverage (% of employees)

96

96

95

Total carbon
Total carbon per FTE in tonne
Total extrapolated carbon

55
1.0
64

63
1.2
74

82
1.5
94

16
103
30

20
143
29

22
323
29

in kilotonne CO2e

Total carbon Scope 12
Total carbon Scope 22
Total carbon Scope 32

1 The total carbon amount is the sum of scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. The total can vary slightly from sum of the figures displayed here and in other tables due to
the fact that we only display figures rounded to the nearest kilotonne.
2 Scope 1: comprises emissions from our use of natural gas and fuel oil;
Scope 2: comprises emissions from our use of electricity, renewable electricity and district heating;
Scope 3: comprises emissions from our business travel by air and car. While scope 3, category 15 (emissions through lending and investments) is material to ING’s
indirect emissions footprint, due to measurement complexity and lack of quality data, ING is not able accurately to measure and disclose this figure. See section
on Climate Strategy above.
3 The total carbon figure for Scope 2 displayed here is calculated using the GHG Protocol Market-based calculation method outlined within the Scope 2 Guidance.
This method takes into account the use of renewable electricity with an emissions factor of 0 g CO2e/MWh. This significant decrease since 2015 results from a
decrease in electricity consumption and an increase of renewable electricity purchased. Using the Location-based method outlined within the Scope 2 Guidance,
our scope 2 CO2e emissions for our base-year (2014) were 123 kilotonnes and for 2017 were 100 kilotonnes. This means that we have reduced our location-based
scope 2 emissions by 19% since 2014. For more information on our calculation methodology and scope, please see our reporting protocol on www.ing.com/ar2017.

Paper consumption
in tonnes

Coverage (% of employees)
Eco-labelled paper
Non-eco-labelled paper
Total

2017

2016

2015

99
1,414
50
1,463

98
1,664
64
1,729

95
1,434
316
1,750

2017

2016

2015

99
1,5762

98
3,0323

95
2,870

Residual waste1
in tonnes

Coverage (% of employees)
Total residual waste

1 Residual waste is total waste minus the waste that is recycled.
2 In 2017 we recorded a dramatic decrease in waste compared to 2016 in the absence of the one-off office relocation and archive dumps and due to a 25% increase
in our recycling efforts and a 37% decrease in our paper consumption compared to 2014.
3 In 2016 we saw an increase in residual waste due to a slight uptick in coverage (we do not extrapolate waste values), the relocation of our UK office, and archive
dumps in Belgium and Turkey.

Water consumption
in thousands of m3

Coverage (% of employees)
Total water consumption

ING Group Annual Report 2017

350

2017

2016

2015

96
563

92
578

91
574

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Non-financial appendix – continued

Sustainable Procurement

With more than EUR 4 billion in global procured spend and 25,000 suppliers worldwide, we have a real opportunity to drive our
sustainability agenda through our supply chain. By encouraging suppliers to share our standards and work towards continual
improvement, we believe we can make a demonstrable impact while mitigating risks.
At ING, our procurement policies and procedures require us to take into account the social and environmental aspects of the products
we procure as well as the attitude of the supplier towards sustainability. We have implemented, globally, a supplier qualification (SQ)
process that helps us determine the levels of social, environmental and financial risks associated with a supplier, specifically related to
human rights, including forced and child labour, fair labour standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption1. Once suppliers
pass the SQ process, they are qualified to become ING suppliers and the ING Procurement Sustainability Standards (IPSS) apply.
Adherence to IPSS is then monitored via our partnership with EcoVadis Sustainability Monitoring. For more information on our
Sustainable Procurement Program, please see our Environmental Approach. In 2016, we made the following commitments:
• We will procure 100% green electricity for all ING buildings worldwide by 2020.
• We will pilot 20 circular purchasing projects.
• We will conduct sustainability performance assessments for 450 suppliers by end of 20172.
Environmental Programme - other facts and figures
Business Travel
Fully Electric Vehicles
Hybrid Vehicles
Sustainable Procurement
Renewable Electricity
Supplier Sustainability Performance
Assessments

Unit
# Vehicles
# Vehicles
% of total electricity consumption
# of Suppliers Engaged

2017

2016

2015

105
302

82
301

75
485

95

91

86

877

647

596

Stakeholder engagement

On a day-to-day basis we actively engage with our customers and other stakeholders, including investors, government officials and
NGOs, on relevant topics, issues and challenges, both at an expert level and at a (senior) management and Board level. Our Global
Head of Sustainability is actively engaged in dialogue with stakeholders both internally and externally. In revising our ESR policies,
we follow a structured consultation process and proactively seek input from relevant stakeholders. In line with our Sustainability
Direction we contribute to multiple international initiatives and cooperate as a member in platforms such as the Equator Principles
Association and the Ellen MacArthur Foundation for circular economy. We seek external direction and validation of our sustainability
priorities by endorsing international standards such as the UN Global Compact, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and
the Global Reporting Initiative. In 2017, ING in Turkey, along with six other banks who are signatories of the UN Global Compact signed
the Declaration on Sustainable Finance. The Declaration, prepared under the leadership of Global Compact Network Turkey, aims at
amending the credit processes with the evaluation of the environmental and social risks and integrating these assessments to relevant
policies. An up-to-date overview of partnerships, memberships and endorsements can be found on www.ing.com/17ar28.
We define stakeholders as individuals or organisations who may be directly or indirectly impacted by ING’s activities or individuals or
organisations who may have an impact on ING’s activities or ability to provide products and services. ING continually monitors who
our stakeholders are and identifies and selects our stakeholders. Stakeholders who temporarily manifest themselves on certain topics
can also have a relevant input. Throughout the year, challenges and issues are discussed with and brought to our attention by various
stakeholders. In the table below, we provide a snapshot of the key issues from 2017.

1 As a result of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, ING is obliged to publish a ‘slavery and human trafficking statement’ for each financial year. ING published its first
statement in 2017, available at www.ing.com/17ar22.
2 As of year-end 2017, 412 suppliers were assessed.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

351

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Non-financial appendix – continued

Issue table
Stakeholder(s)
involved

Topic of discussion

ING's point of view

Dakota Access Pipeline
Being part of a syndicate of 17 banks, ING financed the DAPL
pipeline project. Controversy arose as native American
Standing Rock Sioux Tribe disagreed with the processes
utilised in the granting of licences/permits.

In 2016, we reported on this issue, which was resolved in 2017. Various
We continually tried to use our influence to resolve this issue stakeholders
in a way that all parties could be satisfied with. We met with globally
members of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe on 10 February
2017 and we shared our willingness to either continue trying
to positively influence the course of the project, or to distance
ourselves by selling our stake in the loan. In the months after,
ING reached an agreement for the transfer of its loan to the
Dakota Access pipeline. The sale has the full support of the
Standing Rock Tribe.

Financing coal-fired power plants
Throughout the year, NGOs and newspapers reported on the
involvement of ING in financing coal-fired power plants being:
• Cirebon Electric Power II, a coal-fired power plant in
Indonesia
• Punta Catalina, a coal-fired power plant in the Dominican
Republic

In December 2017, we announced the ambition to stop our
lending (project finance) to individual coal-fired power plants
by the end of 2025. In 2015 we said that we wouldn’t finance
any new coal-fired power plants, excluding standing
commitments. As a result, lending to individual coal-fired
power plants has already decreased by 9% in 2016. Both
Cirebon II and Punta Catalina are projects we commited to
before publication of the previous coal policy publication in
2015.

Various
stakeholders
globally

Impact transformation on workforce
On 3 October 2016, ING announced its plans to accelerate the
Think Forward strategy. This involved moving to an integrated
banking platform, leveraging the combined strenghts of the
Netherlands and Belgium. Employees in Belgium expressed
strong misgivings about the implications, which were
expected to result in a reduction of ING’s workforce in
Belgium by around 3,500 FTEs. Society at-large also
expressed its concern, including the highest Belgian political
institutions.

We have been working to counter this over the past 12
months with pro-active communication, openness,
transparent procedures and discussions with unions, several
contacts at the highest political level, as well as regular
internal updates. ING offered generous packages to
employees affected.

Various
stakeholders in
Belgium

Fair Finance Guide report
In 2017, Fair Finance Guide (FFG) Belgium published an
update of the guide for Belgium. The results for ING Belgium
were based on research conducted by FFG Netherlands a
year earlier. FFG’s annual update benchmarks banks’ policies
against a set of expectations. FFG concluded that ING had
made improvements.

ING saw its scores increase from 41% to 52% and received
Fair Finance
again the highest score of the so-called big five retail banks on Guide (FFG) in
the Belgian market.
Belgium

Banking fee
A number of banks started charging for services which used
to be free of charge. These included services like basic bank
accounts, withdrawals, transfers and printed bank
statements.

ING announced, that the bank will use its growth and cost
advantage to avoid charging customers for opening new
accounts or other services as long as it can.

Various
stakeholders in
Germany

Financial literacy
The 2017 ING International Survey shows:
More than 50% of Germans call themselves financially
illiterate.

ING provides compact financial knowledge – suitable for
everyday use and very easy to understand. It covers all areas
– from saving to investing to retirement plans. New video
lessons offer help on financial questions and helpful tips on
how to make more of one’s money. These tips are from
independent financial experts, the consumer advocate H. J.
Tenhagen and the renowned ZEIT Academy.

ING
International
Survey in
Germany

Low interest rate
Many banks are offering virtually no interest on savings
deposits - a huge challenge for consumers who want to save
and set money aside for major purchases and retirement.

ING has started a partnership with Scalable with a highly
Various
attractive and comfortable way of investing. Together, we will stakeholders in
offer a fully digital investment solution to ING’s retail
Germany
customers in Germany. German customers with over EUR
10,000 will now be able to get easy access to a well-diversified
investment portfolio online.

Nuclear weapons and cluster munitions
PAX issued two reports. The first was on investments made in
companies producing cluster munitions and the second on
banks’ involvement with nuclear-weapon producing
companies. Overall, PAX was positive about ING. They
commented that ING should apply its exclusion policy
comprehensively to all its markets and to all its financial
products, including funds following an index. In both reports,
ING was again incuded in the runners-up category.

ING does not provide any services whatsoever to companies
that produce cluster munition. ING also does not finance
nuclear weapons. There are companies partially involved in
producing nuclear weapons while primarily engaged in
non-defence activities. ING doesn’t finance the nuclear
weapons activities of these companies.

ING Group Annual Report 2017

Our elaborate stance towards the defence industry and
nuclear weapons and cluster munitions in particular can be
found on our webpage Our Stance: www.ing.com/17ar23

352

PAX
Netherlands

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Non-financial appendix – continued

Issue table - continued
Stakeholder(s)
involved

Topic of discussion

ING’s point of view

Barn fires
Various NGOs publicised barn fires where thousands of
animals died and suggested that banks should act to prevent
a recurrence.

ING has entered into a dialogue with several concerned NGOs Various NGOs in
the Netherlands
and the clients where the barn fires occurred. ING is in
general keen to help create safer living conditions for animals
by supporting our clients in this endeavour.
More information can be found on our webpage
Our Stance: www.ing.com/17ar24

Tax transparency
Since 2015, all banks based in the European Union have been
obliged to report on their operations on a country-by-country
basis. The ‘Opening the vaults’ report tried to illustrate in what
way banks are involved in tax havens.

The Oxfam Netherlands conclusion was that, based on their
international research, some international banks seem to use
tax havens for tax reasons. However, they explicitly
mentioned ING was not one of those banks.
ING pays taxes at the normal rates in the countries where
we’re active, which is reported as a global effective tax rate of
about 27,4%. We don’t have any entities in ‘tax havens’ to
reduce our total tax bill and we don’t provide customers with
tax advice.

Oxfam
International/
Oxfam
Netherlands

More information on income taxes can be found at:
www.ing.com/17ar25
Climate change
In partnership with 28 organisations around the world,
BankTrack, Rainforest Action Network, Sierra Club and Oil
Change International published their annual Fossil Fuel
Finance Report Card for 2017 reporting on 32 banks and their
involvement in specific types of fossil fuels.

We recognise climate change is an unparalleled challenge for
our world, one where banks also have a role to play. We play
our part in various ways. One way is the strenghtening of our
coal policy. We announced in December 2017 the ambition
to stop our lending to individual coal-fired power plants by
the end of 2025.

Banktrack in
the Netherlands

ING continued to be commended for its ESR policy
framework, restrictions of controversial activities and due
diligence processes.
Palm oil
Greenpeace zoomed in on the palm oil portfolios of
international banks and compared policies of banks to one
another in their report called ‘Dirty Bankers’.

We provided input for the questionnaire used in the
Greenpeace report about, among others, our RSPO
membership, having policies in place for no-deforestation
(natural forests/HCV), no forced/child labour, no burning of
forests etc. Out of the 18 banks whose policies were
compared and have decent policies in place we ranked 3rd.

Greenpeace in
the Netherlands

More information on ING’s stance on Palm Oil can be found
at: www.ing.com/17ar26
NCP complaint
8 May 2017, Oxfam Novib, Greenpeace, BankTrack and
Milieudefensie (NGOs) requested the Dutch National Contact
Point for the OECD Guidelines (the notification) make a
statement on ING’s climate policy regarding the following:
measuring its indirect carbon footprint, disclosure of said
carbon footprint and alignment of the bank’s lending portfolio
with a the 1.5-degree scenario.

Climate change is an tremendous unparalleled challenge for
the world and it is one in which banks, including ING, have a
role to play.
The attribution of carbon emissions to a global warming
scenario is important. We currently lack an international
standard for reliable and comparable data. For this reason,
ING is unable to deliver or disclose the requested data.
On 14 November 2017, the National Contact Point (NCP) ruled
the notification made by the NGOs admissible. In accordance
with its procedures, the Dutch NCP has therefore offered to
facilitate a dialogue between ING and the NGOs. ING has
accepted the NCP’s offer and will take part in that dialogue.
More information can be found on our webpage Our
Stance: www.ing.com/17ar27

ING Group Annual Report 2017

353

National
Contact Point
(NCP)
for the OECD
Guidelines in
the Netherlands

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

Non-GAAP measures
ING Group evaluates its results using a financial performance measure called underlying result. Underlying result is used to monitor
the performance of ING Group at a consolidated level and by segment. The Executive Board and Management Board Banking consider
this measure to be relevant to an understanding of the Group's financial performance because it gives better insight into the
commercial developments of the company. Underlying result is derived by excluding from IFRS the following: special items; the impact
of divestments and Legacy Insurance.
Special items include items of income or expense that are significant and arise from events or transactions that management consider
distinct from the regular operating activities. These may either be recurring or non-recurring in nature but must be of a significant size
to qualify as a special item. Disclosures on comparative periods also reflect the impact of current period's divestments. Legacy
Insurance consists of the intercompany eliminations between ING Bank and NN Group until deconsolidation of NN Group at the end of
May 2015, the results from Insurance Other and the results from discontinued operations. Insurance Other reflects (former) insurance
related activities that are not part of the discontinued operations.
The items excluded from the GAAP measures in 2017 are:
• Tax charge of EUR 121 million at ING Australia Holdings Ltd related to the years 2007-2013, for which a full reimbursement is
expected to be received from NN Group. Although the bottom-line impact for ING Group was nil, it affected both the ‘taxation’ and
‘other income' lines.
• Result of Insurance Other, reflecting the result on the warrants on Voya and NN Group shares, amounting to EUR –52 million after
tax.
Underlying result is a non-GAAP financial measure and is not a measure of financial performance under IFRS. Because underlying
result is not determined in accordance with IFRS, underlying result as presented by ING may not be comparable to other similarly
titled measures of performance of other companies. Note that underlying ratios are also impacted by the items above when
calculated using the individual income or expense line item to which the items relate.
Below table shows a comparison of GAAP versus non-GAAP of the most important measures used by ING.
Reconciliation between IFRS and Underlying
Net result attributable to ING Group’s shareholders

(a)

2017

2016

2015

4,905

4,651

4,010

441

–456

4,905

4,210

4,466

-/- Net result attributable to ING Group’s shareholders from discontinued operations
Net result attributable to ING Group’s shareholders from continuing operations
-/- Net result from divestments

367

-/- Net result from special items

–799

-/- Net result insurance other and eliminations ING Bank/NN Group
Underlying net result Banking

(b)

Shareholders’ equity ING Group (year-end)

–58

–52

33

–63

4,957

4,976

4,219

50,406

49,793

47,832

(c)

48,412

49,038

49,259

ING Group’s total return on equity

(a/c)

10.1%

9.5%

8.1%

ING Group’s underlying return on equity

(b/c)

10.2%

10.1%

8.6%

(d)

17,773

17,491

16,845

Shareholders’ equity ING Group (average*)

Total income (continuing operations)
-/- Income from divestments/special items

121

-/- Income from insurance other and eliminations ING Bank/NN Group

–53

33

–73

17,704

17,458

16,552

Staff expenses (continuing operations)

5,202

5,039

4,972

Other operating expenses (continuing operations)

4,627

5,575

4,354

9,829

10,614

9,326

1,157

77

Underlying income

(e)

Total operating expenses (continuing operations)

(f)

-/- Operating expenses from divestments/special items

367

-/- Operating expenses Insurance Other and eliminations ING Bank/NN Group
Underlying operating expenses

3
(g)

9,829

9,456

9,246

Cost/income ratio (continuing operations)

(f/d)

55.3%

60.7%

55.4%

Underlying cost/income ratio

(g/e)

55.5%

54.2%

55.9%

* average shareholders’ equity calculated based on quarter-end figures after excluding 'interim profit not included in CET1 capital' as from 31 March 2017

ING Group Annual Report 2017

354

Contents

Report of the
Executive Board

Corporate
Governance

Consolidated
annual accounts

Parent company
annual accounts

Other
information

Additional
information

General information
ING Publications

•
•
•

could cause actual results, performance or events to differ
materially from those expressed or implied in such statements.
Actual results, performance or events may differ materially
from those in such statements due to a number of factors,
including, without limitation: (1) changes in general economic
conditions, in particular economic conditions in ING’s core
markets, (2) changes in performance of financial markets,
including developing markets, (3) potential consequences of
European Union countries leaving the European Union or a
break-up of the euro, (4) changes in the availability of, and
costs associated with, sources of liquidity such as interbank
funding, as well as conditions in the credit and capital markets
generally, including changes in borrower and counterparty
creditworthiness, (5) changes affecting interest rate levels, (6)
changes affecting currency exchange rates, (7) changes in
investor and customer behaviour, (8) changes in general
competitive factors, (9) changes in laws and regulations and
the interpretation and application thereof, (10) geopolitical
risks and policies and actions of governmental and regulatory
authorities, (11) changes in standards and interpretations
under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and
the application thereof, (12) conclusions with regard to
purchase accounting assumptions and methodologies, and
other changes in accounting assumptions and methodologies
including changes in valuation of issued securities and credit
market exposure, (13) changes in ownership that could affect
the future availability to us of net operating loss, net capital
and built-in loss carry forwards, (14) changes in credit ratings,
(15) the outcome of current and future legal and regulatory
proceedings, (16) operational risks, such as system
disruptions or failures, breaches of security, cyberattacks,
human error, changes in operational practices or
inadequate controls including in respect of third parties with
which we do business, (17) the inability to protect our
intellectual property and infringement claims by third
parties, (18) the inability to retain key personnel, (19)
business, operational, regulatory, reputation and other
risks in connection with climate change, (20) ING’s ability to
achieve its strategy, including projected operational
synergies and cost-saving programmes and (21) the other
risks and uncertainties detailed in this annual report of ING
Groep N.V. (including the Risk Factors contained therein) and
ING’s more recent disclosures, including press releases,
which are available on www.ING.com. Many of those factors
are beyond ING’s control

ING Group Annual Report, in English
ING Bank Annual Report
Annual Report on Form 20-F, in English (in accordance
with SEC guidelines)

The publications can be downloaded on the internet:
www.ing.com, button ‘Publications’. The printed version of the
Annual Report on Form 20-F, in English, can be ordered here.
This Annual Report contains the Reports of the Executive
Board and Supervisory Board as well as the Annual Accounts
and other information for the financial year 2017 in their
original language (English).

ING Groep N.V.

Bijlmerplein 888, 1102 MG Amsterdam
P.O. Box 1800, 1000 BV Amsterdam The Netherlands
Telephone: +31 20 5639111 Internet: www.ing.com
Commercial Register of Amsterdam, no. 33231073

Written and produced by
ING Groep N.V.

Any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of ING
speak only as of the date they are made, and ING assumes no
obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information or for any
other reason.

Designed by

Smidswater, Den Haag
Dennis Dean Animation & Design, Amsterdam

Photography

Boards, CEO and Chairman: Marco Sweering Photography

Projects related to the integration of Record Bank in Belgium
are still subject to regulatory approval.

Disclaimer

Certain of the statements contained herein are not historical
facts, including, without limitation, certain statements made of
future expectations and other forward-looking statements that
are based on management’s current views and assumptions
and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that

ING Group Annual Report 2017

355

This document does not constitute an offer to sell, or a
solicitation of an offer to purchase, any securities in the
United States or any other jurisdiction.

