Annual Report 2018

Transforming healthcare
through innovation

Contents
1

Message from the CEO

3

7

2

Board of Management and Executive
Committee

5

8
8.1

3
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4

Strategy and Businesses
Transforming healthcare through innovation
How we create value
Our businesses
Our commitment to Quality, Regulatory
Compliance and Integrity

6
6
8
10
19

8.2
8.3
8.4

4
4.1
4.2

Financial performance
Performance review
Investor information

21
21
35

9.2
9.3
9.4
9.5

5
5.1
5.2

Societal impact
Social performance
Environmental performance

38
38
43

6
6.1
6.2
6.3
6.4
6.5
6.6

Risk management
Our approach to risk management
Risk categories and factors
Strategic risks
Operational risks
Compliance risks
Financial risks

50
50
53
54
55
57
59

IFRS basis of presentation
The financial information included in this document is based on IFRS,
as explained in Significant accounting policies, starting on page 112,
unless otherwise indicated.
References to Philips
References to the Company or company, to Philips or the (Philips)
Group or group, relate to Koninklijke Philips N.V. and its subsidiaries,
as the context requires. Royal Philips refers to Koninklijke Philips N.V.
Philips Lighting/Signify
References to 'Signify' in this Annual Report relate to Philips' former
Lighting segment (prior to deconsolidation as from the end of
November 2017 and when reported as discontinued operations),
Philips Lighting N.V. (before or after such deconsolidation) or Signify
N.V. (after its renaming in May 2018), as the context requires.
Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act
This document comprises regulated information within the meaning
of the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act (Wet op het financieel
toezicht).
Statutory financial statements and management report
The chapters Group financial statements and Company financial
statements contain the statutory financial statements of the
Company. The introduction to the chapter Group financial statements
sets out which parts of this Annual Report form the Management
report within the meaning of Section 2:391 of the Dutch Civil Code
(and related Decrees).
Front cover: In 2018, Philips launched its Lumify with Reacts
mobile tele-ultrasound solution in Kenya and Nigeria. This solution
is based on Philips’ Lumify portable ultrasound system and
powered by Innovative Imaging Technologies’ Reacts collaborative
platform. It connects clinicians in real time by turning a compatible
smart device into an integrated tele-ultrasound solution,
combining two-way audio-visual calls with live ultrasound
streaming.

9
9.1

10
10.1
10.2
10.3

Supervisory Board

61

Supervisory Board report
Report of the Corporate Governance and
Nomination & Selection Committee
Report of the Remuneration Committee
Report of the Audit Committee
Report of the Quality & Regulatory Committee

62
66

Corporate governance
Board of Management and Executive
Committee
Supervisory Board
General Meeting of Shareholders
Meeting logistics and other information
Investor Relations

76
76

68
74
75

80
84
85
87
90
90
99
100

10.4

Other information
Reconciliation of non-IFRS information
Five-year overview
Forward-looking statements and other
information
Definitions and abbreviations

11
11.1
11.2
11.3

Statements
Group financial statements
Company financial statements
Sustainability statements

104
104
180
196

101

Message from the CEO 1

1 Message from the CEO
“ Our transformation into a customer-centric solutions
company is gathering momentum, and with our focus on
innovation and continuous improvement we will unlock
further value.”Frans van Houten, CEO Royal Philips
Dear Stakeholder,
In 2018 we made further progress on our journey to
extend our leadership as a health technology company.
In my frequent meetings with our hospital customers,
they tell me how they appreciate our strategy and are
keen to engage with us. They want to know more about
our innovative solutions – suites of systems, smart
devices, software and services – that can help them
deliver on the Quadruple Aim of improved patient
experience, better health outcomes, improved staff
experience, and lower cost of care. At the same time,
we see a real interest among consumers, healthcare
professionals, insurers and policy makers to help
people towards a healthier lifestyle and support
primary and secondary prevention of health challenges.
We see this as a validation of our strategy to drive
technology innovation along the health continuum and
disease pathways. As a result, we have seen growing
demand for our products and solutions, an increase in
long-term strategic partnerships, and substantial
growth of order intake.
With comparable sales growth of 5%*) and the Adjusted
EBITA*) margin improving by 100 basis points to 13.1% in
2018, we continue to deliver on our financial targets.
Having said that, our performance at segment level
shows we still have scope for further improvement. Our
Diagnosis & Treatment businesses had a very good year
in terms of sales growth, order intake growth and
improved earnings. At Connected Care & Health
Informatics, topline growth was flat and we continued
to make substantial investments in R&D, but the
expanding order book gives us confidence we are on
the right path to boost growth. Personal Health had a
slower year, in part due to internal execution challenges,
but we have taken decisive action. We are confident
about the road ahead, given the exciting array of
innovative new products and services we are bringing
onto the market. We also made a number of
complementary acquisitions in 2018 to strengthen
businesses across our portfolio.
In light of the continuous performance improvement
over the last three years and the strength of our balance
sheet, we propose to increase the dividend by 6%.
While the current geopolitical and macroeconomic
uncertainty is a challenge, we are making progress with
our ‘self-help’ initiatives to address headwinds such as

trade tariffs and emerging-market currency volatility, for
instance by adjusting our supply base, leveraging our
multi-modality factories, and extending our productivity
plans. Last year I wrote that making further progress on
product performance and quality was our highest
priority for 2018. We continue to invest substantially in
driving quality and compliance, and while there is still
work to do, we are starting to reap the benefits of our
improvement efforts, positioning us well for the future.

Transforming healthcare through innovation
Meeting the growing demand and improving the
delivery of care while containing costs – that is the very
substantial challenge faced by health systems around
the world. It is driving the shift towards value-based
care, the consolidation of hospitals into Integrated
Delivery Networks, and the consumerization of
healthcare, as well as increasing the importance of
preventative care, early disease detection, and the
management of chronic disease outside the hospital.
Innovative health technology is helping to transform
healthcare, supporting improved outcomes as well as
productivity gains. The growing role of data, informatics
and Artificial Intelligence (AI) is having a major impact,
principally in the areas of precision diagnosis, clinical
decision support, care orchestration, telehealth and, not
least, in helping consumers to live a healthy life or cope
with chronic disease. In this market, which has attractive
growth rates and profit pools, we have strong positions
across the health continuum.
At Philips, we believe in integrated, connected care –
connecting consumers/patients, providers and payers
more effectively and leveraging informatics for better
outcomes at lower cost.
We enable clinicians to make precision diagnosis and
deliver personalized, minimally invasive therapies
through our digital imaging and clinical informatics
solutions. A shining example is our Azurion imageguided therapy platform, which has secured a +300
basis points gain in market share and over 1,000 orders
since its launch in 2017.
We empower care professionals with healthcare
informatics solutions like our IntelliSpace Portal data
integration, visualization and analysis platform for
enhanced diagnostic confidence, and monitoring,

Annual Report 2018

3

Message from the CEO 1

predictive analytics solutions like our IntelliVue
Guardian with Early Warning Scoring, which enables
nursing staff to identify patients whose condition may
be deteriorating rapidly.
We enable people to recover, or live with chronic
disease, at home, thanks to solutions such as our new
Trilogy Evo home ventilation platform plus Care
Orchestrator cloud-based management system.
Likewise, we enable people to stay healthy and prevent
disease by means of connected products like our
Pregnancy+ parenting app and our Sonicare
DiamondClean electric toothbrush with Sonicare app,
which includes teledentistry and automatic brush-head
reordering services.
Joining up the dots from the ICU to the home, our
HealthSuite platforms support the seamless flow of
data needed to care for people in real time, wherever
they are.
Our innovation strength has been key to these
transformational solutions, and I am convinced there is
even better to come. We continue to maintain a high
level of investment in R&D, with a strong focus on
software and data science, and we now apply the
Quadruple Aim as a guide in all our development
choices, so that our innovations have maximum impact
and are fully scalable.

Delivering on our sustainability commitments
Reflecting our commitment to the United Nations’
Sustainable Development Goals, we continue to embed
sustainability deeper in the way we do business. With
its focus on access to care, circular economy and
climate action, our ‘Healthy people, Sustainable planet’
program is the vehicle that will enable us to deliver on
these commitments. In December 2018, Philips became
the world’s first health technology company to have its
CO2 emission targets approved by the Science Based
Targets initiative. Our sustainability performance
received renewed recognition when – in the first year
since our reclassification to the Health Care Equipment
& Services industry group – we took second place in the
2018 Dow Jones Sustainability Index. With health
systems the world over increasingly keen to reduce their
environmental footprint, we remain convinced that
sustainability can be a key competitive differentiator.

This means making a big step up in quality, operational
excellence and productivity, and continuing to drive the
digital transformation in every area of our business. It
means capturing geographic growth opportunities and
pivoting to consultative customer partnerships and
business models that offer a much deeper relationship,
with recurring revenue streams. In that regard, our multiyear ‘patient monitoring as a service’ agreement with
Miami's Jackson Health System and our medical
technology partnership agreements with Children’s
Health hospital in Dallas and Munich Municipal Hospital
are a blueprint for the way to go. It also means
continuing the shift from products to innovative valueadded, integrated solutions, supported by organic
growth and disciplined M&A.
Together, these measures will drive sustained
performance improvement as we pursue our overall
targets of 4-6% comparable sales growth*) and an
Adjusted EBITA*) margin improvement of 100 basis
points on average per year for the period 2017–2020.
We also expect to increase the annual free cash flow*)
to above EUR 1.5 billion by 2020.
In the end, culture is foundational to our strategic
ambitions. At Philips we place five key elements high on
our culture agenda: putting customers first, acting with
quality and integrity, teaming up to win, taking
ownership to deliver fast, and improving and inspiring
each other. These behaviors create a shared
understanding of how we all need to act in order to
delight the customer and drive market success.

In conclusion
On a personal note, I would like to thank our customers,
shareholders and other stakeholders for the confidence
they have shown in Philips over the past year. I would
also like to thank our employees for their hard work and
dedication, as we seek to combine day-to-day
performance with a profound, customer-focused
transformation.
Pleased with the progress we are making, yet conscious
that we still have a way to go, I strongly believe that the
combination of our sense of purpose, innovation
strength, culture of customer centricity and deep
commitment to continuous improvement is a potent
recipe for Philips to win and make the world healthier
and more sustainable.

Roadmap to win
With our transformation into a customer-first solutions
company gathering pace, we have identified three main
drivers of continued growth and improved profitability:
Better serve customers and improve quality; Boost
growth in core business; Win with solutions along the
health continuum.
We believe that by engaging more deeply with our
customers and consumers, making it easier for them to
do business with us, developing more compelling
solutions, and acting with increased agility, speed and
efficiency, we will deliver greater value for all our
stakeholders.

4

Annual Report 2018

Frans van Houten
Chief Executive Officer

*)

Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and
reconciliation of the most directly comparable IFRS
measure, refer to Reconciliation of non-IFRS information,
starting on page 90.

Board of Management and Executive Committee 2

2 Board of Management and
Executive Committee
Koninklijke Philips N.V. is managed by an Executive
Committee which comprises the members of the Board
of Management and certain key officers from functions,
businesses and markets.
The Executive Committee operates under the
chairmanship of the Chief Executive Officer and shares
responsibility for the deployment of Philips’ strategy
and policies, and the achievement of its objectives and
results.
Under Dutch Law, the Board of Management is
accountable for the actions of the Executive Committee
and has ultimate responsibility for the management and
external reporting of Koninklijke Philips N.V. and is
answerable to shareholders at the Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders. Pursuant to the two-tier
corporate structure, the Board of Management is
accountable for its performance to a separate and
independent Supervisory Board.

Andy Ho
Born 1961, Chinese
Executive Vice President
Market Leader of Philips Greater China
For a full résumé, click here

Roy Jakobs
Born 1974, Dutch/German
Executive Vice President
Chief Business Leader of Personal Health
For a full résumé, click here

Henk Siebren de Jong
Born 1964, Dutch
Executive Vice President
Chief of International Markets
For a full résumé, click here

Ronald de Jong
Born 1967, Dutch
Executive Vice President

The Rules of Procedure of the Board of Management
and Executive Committee are published on the
company’s website (www.philips.com/investor).

Chief Human Resources Officer, Chairman Philips Foundation
For a full résumé, click here

Frans van Houten

Born 1971, German
Executive Vice President

Born 1960, Dutch
Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
Chairman of the Board of Management and the Executive
Committee since April 2011
For a full résumé, click here

Sophie Bechu

Carla Kriwet

Chief Business Leader of Connected Care & Health Informatics
For a full résumé, click here

Vitor Rocha
Born 1969, Brazilian/American
Executive Vice President

Born 1960, French/American
Executive Vice President

Market Leader of Philips North America
For a full résumé, click here

Chief of Operations
For a full résumé, click here

Jeroen Tas

Abhijit Bhattacharya

Born 1959, Dutch
Executive Vice President

Born 1961, Indian
Executive Vice President

Chief Innovation and Strategy Officer
For a full résumé, click here

Member of the Board of Management since December 2015
Chief Financial Officer
For a full résumé, click here

Rob Cascella
Born 1954, American
Executive Vice President
Chief Business Leader of Diagnosis & Treatment
For a full résumé, click here

Marnix van Ginneken
Born 1973, Dutch/American
Executive Vice President
Member of the Board of Management since November 2017
Chief Legal Officer
For a full résumé, click here

This page reflects the composition of the Executive
Committee as per December 31, 2018. As announced on
January 10, 2019, Philips has realigned the composition
of its reporting segments. Effective as of January 1, 2019,
the Sleep & Respiratory Care business has shifted from
the Personal Health segment to the renamed Connected
Care segment and most of the Healthcare Informatics
business have shifted from the renamed Connected Care
segment to the Diagnosis & Treatment segment. The
Diagnosis & Treatment segment is comprised of two
clusters: Precision Diagnosis led by Rob Cascella and
Image-Guided Therapy led by Bert van Meurs. Mr. van
Meurs was also appointed as a member of the Executive
Committee, effective as of January 1, 2019.

Annual Report 2018

5

Strategy and Businesses 3

3 Strategy and Businesses
3.1 Transforming healthcare through innovation
Healthcare challenges the world over
All around the world, trends such as growing, aging
populations, the increase in chronic illnesses and
changing reimbursement systems have created a need
for more efficient, effective and sustainable models of
care. At the same time, a growing focus on healthy living
and prevention means people are looking for new ways
to monitor and manage their health. In underserved
communities, meanwhile, access to care remains a
pressing issue.
A clear vision guiding our actions
Led by our vision of making the world healthier and
more sustainable through innovation, Philips is driving
the digital health revolution to unlock the value of
seamless care, helping people to look after their health
at every stage of life – with the goal of improving the
lives of 3 billion people a year by 2025.
This ambition demands an approach that addresses
both the social and ecological dimensions, as reflected
in our commitment to the United Nations’ Sustainable
Development Goals 3, 12 and 13:
• Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all
at all ages
• Ensure sustainable consumption and production
patterns
• Take urgent action to combat climate change and its
impacts
With its focus on access to care, circular economy and
climate action, our ‘Healthy people, Sustainable planet’
program, running from 2016-2020, is designed to help
us deliver on these commitments.

6

Annual Report 2018

Innovating care
The desire for affordable and effective healthcare
delivery, without compromising the future availability of
natural resources, is driving the adoption of valuebased care. This will first require a shift from volume to
value, which Philips is driving through innovation, as
well as by transforming the way we engage with
customers and shape business models. Secondly, it will
require the balance to shift from acute and episodic
care more towards primary and secondary preventative
care in the community and home, improving overall
population health.
At Philips, we like to visualize healthcare as a continuum
since it puts people at the center and supports the idea
of care pathways. Believing that healthcare should be
seamless, efficient and effective, we ‘join up the dots’ for
our customers and consumers. Data and informatics will
play an ever-increasing role in helping people to live
healthily and/or cope with disease, and in enabling care
providers to meet people’s needs, deliver better
outcomes and improve productivity.
Applying our extensive consumer insights, we develop
locally relevant, connected solutions that support
healthier lifestyles, prevent or cure disease, and help
people to live well with chronic disease, also in the
home and community settings. In hospitals, we are
teaming up with healthcare providers in long-term
strategic partnerships to innovate and transform the
way care is delivered.
We listen closely to our customers’ needs and together
we co-create solutions – suites of systems, smart
devices, software and services that drive improvements
in patient outcomes, quality of care delivery and cost
productivity. Increasingly, we are partnering with our
customers in new business models where we take coresponsibility for our customers’ key performance
indicators.

Strategy and Businesses 3.1

Integrated solutions addressing the Quadruple Aim
Philips sees significant value in integrated healthcare,
applying the power of predictive data analytics and
artificial intelligence at the point of care, while at the
same time optimizing care delivery across the health
continuum. This includes an increased focus on both
primary and secondary prevention and population
health management programs.

Underpinning these solutions, and spanning the health
continuum, our connected care and health informatics
solutions enable us to:

With our global reach, deep insights and innovative
strength, we are uniquely positioned in ‘the last yard’ to
consumers and care providers, delivering:

By addressing healthcare as a ‘connected whole’ in this
way, we are able to unlock gains and efficiencies and
drive innovations that help our customers to deliver on
the Quadruple Aim of value-based healthcare:
improved patient experience, better health outcomes,
improved staff experience, and lower cost of care.

• connected products and services supporting the
health and well-being of people
• integrated modalities and clinical informatics to
deliver precision diagnosis
• real-time guidance and smart devices for minimally
invasive interventions
• connected products and services for chronic care.

• connect patients and providers for more effective,
coordinated, personalized care
• manage population health, leveraging real-time
patient data and clinical analytics.

We are focusing on end-to-end pathways – at present
primarily cardiology, oncology, respiratory care, and
pregnancy and parenting – where we believe our
integrated approach can add even greater value.
The road ahead
As we continue on our health technology journey, the
drivers set out in the roadmap below are designed to
deliver higher levels of customer value and quality,
boost growth, and deliver winning solutions – all
coming together to improve performance and results.

Annual Report 2018

7

Strategy and Businesses 3.2

3.2 How we create value

Based on the International Integrated Reporting Council
framework, and with the Philips Business System at the heart of
our endeavors, we use six forms of capital to create value for our
stakeholders in the short, medium and long term.

Capital input

Philips Business System

The capitals (resources and relationships) that Philips
draws upon for its business activities

With its four interlocking elements, the Philips Business System (PBS) is
designed to help us deliver on our mission and vision – and to ensure
that success is repeatable. As we execute our strategy and invest in the
best opportunities, leverage our unique strengths and become
operationally excellent, we will be able to consistently deliver value to
our customers, consumers, shareholders, and other stakeholders.

Human
• Employees 77,400, 120 nationalities, 38% female
• Philips University 1,200 new courses, 700,000
hours, 550,000 training completions
• 29,977 employees in growth geographies
• Focus on Inclusion & Diversity

Intellectual
• Invested in R&D EUR 1.76 billion (Green Innovation
EUR 228 million)
• Employees in R&D 10,528 across the globe
including growth geographies

Financial
• Equity EUR 12.1 billion
• Net debt*) EUR 3.1 billion

Manufacturing
• Employees in production 30,925
• Manufacturing sites 39, cost of materials used
EUR 4.8 billion
• Total assets EUR 26.0 billion
• Capital expenditure EUR 422 million

Natural
•
•
•
•
•

Energy used in manufacturing 3,062 terajoules
Water used 891,000 m3
Recycled plastics in our products 1,840 tonnes
19 'zero waste to landfill' sites
Pledge to take back all medical equipment by
2025

Social
• Philips Foundation
• Stakeholder engagement
• New volunteering policy

8

Annual Report 2018

Strategy - Where we invest
We manage our portfolio with clearly defined strategies and allocate
resources to maximize value creation.

Capabilities, Assets and Positions - Our unique strengths
We strengthen and leverage our core Capabilities, Assets and Positions
as they create differential value: deep customer insight, technology
innovation, our brand, global footprint, and our people.

Excellence - How we operate
We are a learning organization that applies common operating principles
and practices to deliver to our customers with excellence.

Path to Value - What we deliver
We define and execute business plans that deliver sustainable results
along a credible Path to Value.

Strategy and Businesses 3.2

Human

Manufacturing

We employ diverse and talented people and give
them the skills and training they need to ensure their
effectiveness and their personal development and
employability.

We apply Lean techniques to our manufacturing
processes to produce high-quality products. We
manage our supply chain in a responsible way.

Natural
Intellectual
We apply our innovation and design expertise to
create new products and solutions that meet local
customer needs.

We are a responsible company and aim to minimize
the environmental impact of our supply chain, our
operations, and also our products and solutions.

Social
Financial
We generate the funds we need through our
business operations and where appropriate raise
additional financing from capital providers.

We contribute to our customers and society through
our products and solutions, our tax payments, the
products and services we buy, and our investments in
local communities.

Value outcomes

Societal impact

The result of the application of the six forms of
capital to Philips’ business activities and processes as
shaped by the Philips Business System

The societal impact of Philips though its supply
chain, its operations, and its products and solutions

Human

Human

• Employee Engagement Index 74% favorable
• Sales per employee EUR 234,121

• Employee benefit expenses EUR 5,287 million
• Appointed 77% of our senior positions from
internal sources
• 21% of Leadership positions held by women

Intellectual
• New patent filings 1,120
• IP Royalties Adjusted EBITA*) EUR 272 million
• 141 design awards

Intellectual
• Around 40% of revenues from new products and
solutions introduced in the last three years

Financial
Comparable sales growth*) 5%
64% Green Revenues
Adjusted EBITA*) as a % of sales 13.1%
Net cash provided by operating activities EUR 1.8
billion
• Net capital expenditures EUR 796 million
•
•
•
•

Financial
• Market capitalization EUR 28.3 billion at year-end
• Long-term credit rating A- (Fitch), Baa1 (Moody's),
BBB+ (Standard & Poor's)
• Dividend EUR 738 million

Manufacturing
Manufacturing
• EUR 18.1 billion revenues from products and
solutions sold

• 90% electricity from renewable sources
• 240,000 employees impacted at suppliers
participating in the 'Beyond Auditing' program

Natural

Natural

• 12% revenues from circular propositions
• Net CO2 emissions down to 436 kilotonnes
• 257,000 tonnes (estimated) materials used to put
products on the market
• Waste down to 24.5 kilotonnes, of which 84%
recycled

• Environmental impact Philips operations down to
EUR 175 million
• 1st health technology company to have its CO2
reductions assessed and approved by the Science
Based Targets initiative

Social
Social
• Brand value USD 12.1 billion (Interbrand)
• Partnerships with UNICEF, Red Cross, Amref and
Ashoka

*)

• 1.54 billion Lives Improved (2.24 billion including
Signify), of which 175 million in underserved
communities
• Income tax paid EUR 301 million; the geographic
statutory income tax rate is 25% of the result
before tax

Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and reconciliation of the most directly comparable IFRS measure, refer to Reconciliation of non-

IFRS information, starting on page 90.

Annual Report 2018

9

Strategy and Businesses 3.3

3.3 Our businesses
Our reporting structure in 2018
Koninklijke Philips N.V. (Royal Philips) is the parent company of the Philips Group, headquartered in Amsterdam, the
Netherlands. The company is managed by the Executive Committee (comprising the Board of Management and certain
key officers) under the supervision of the Supervisory Board. The Executive Committee operates under the chairmanship
of the Chief Executive Officer and shares responsibility for the deployment of Philips’ strategy and policies, and the
achievement of its objectives and results.
In 2018, the reportable segments were Diagnosis & Treatment businesses, Connected Care & Health Informatics
businesses, and Personal Health businesses, each having been responsible for the management of its business
worldwide. Additionally, Philips identifies the reportable segment Other. The results in this report are based on the 2018
structure shown below:

To further align its businesses with customer needs,
Philips announced in January 2019 the realignment of
the three reportable segments – Diagnosis & Treatment,
Connected Care & Health Informatics and Personal
Health – effective January 1, 2019. The most notable
changes are the shift of the Sleep & Respiratory Care
business from the Personal Health segment to the
renamed Connected Care segment and the shift of the
Healthcare Informatics business (excluding the Tasy
EMR business and IntelliSpace Enterprise Edition) from
the Connected Care segment to the Diagnosis &
Treatment segment.
As of January 1, 2019, Philips’ reporting segments are
composed as follows:
Diagnosis & Treatment, which unites the businesses
related to the promise of precision diagnosis and
disease pathway selection, and the businesses related
to image-guided, minimally invasive treatments. This
segment comprises the Diagnostic Imaging, Ultrasound,
Healthcare Informatics and Image-Guided Therapy
businesses.

10

Annual Report 2018

Connected Care, which focuses on patient care
solutions, advanced analytics and patient and workflow
optimization inside and outside the hospital, and aims
to unlock synergies from integrating and optimizing
patient care pathways and leveraging provider-payerpatient business models. This segment comprises the
Monitoring & Analytics, Therapeutic Care, Population
Health Management, and Sleep & Respiratory Care
businesses (including the Home Respiratory Care
business).
Personal Health, which focuses on healthy living and
preventative care. This segment comprises the Personal
Care, Domestic Appliances, Oral Healthcare, and
Mother & Child Care businesses.

Strategy and Businesses 3.3.1

3.3.1 Diagnosis & Treatment businesses
The Chief Business Leader of the Diagnosis &
Treatment businesses segment, Rob Cascella, joined
Philips in April 2015. He has more than 30 years of
experience in the healthcare industry and has served on
the boards of several companies, including 10 years as
President and later CEO of Hologic Inc.
About Diagnosis & Treatment businesses in 2018
Our Diagnosis & Treatment businesses are foundational
to our health technology strategy, delivering on the
promise of precision medicine and least-invasive
treatment and therapy. We enable our customers to
realize the full potential of the Quadruple Aim – an
improved patient experience, better health outcomes,
an improved staff experience and lower cost of care –
by connecting people, data and technology. We are
focused on solutions (consisting of suites of systems,
smart devices, software and services) that are robust
and easy to use, while providing the most efficient path
to obtaining a precise diagnosis by integrating multiple
sources of information and combining the data to
create a comprehensive patient view. By bringing
together imaging morphology, pathology and
genomics, we are able to extract and analyze the
information needed to offer highly personalized care.
Informatics is central to everything we do: our KLASawarded IntelliSpace Portal platform, for example,
provides artificial intelligence to make more consistent
decisions, as well as making it easier to share and
collaborate.
We continue to expand the applications for imageguided treatment and therapy – where clinicians are
provided with the technology necessary to determine
the presence of disease, guide procedures, deliver
least-invasive treatment, and confirm effectiveness. Our
solutions enable patient-specific treatment planning
and selection, simplify complex procedures through
integrated real-time guidance, and provide clinically
proven treatment solutions. In 2018, Philips completed
the roll-out of its new Ingenia range of digital MR
systems. This was part of a broader renewal of the
company’s Diagnostic Imaging portfolio, 70% of which
has been introduced in the past two years. We provide
image guidance both in our proprietary products and by
partnering with radiation therapy companies like Elekta
and IBA to deliver real-time, precise cancer treatment.
In Image-Guided Therapy, iFR – a technology used to
assess coronary lesions that is unique to Philips –
continued to gain traction and was incorporated into
the European Society of Cardiology’s updated
guidelines for revascularization. We continued to
expand our portfolio in Image-Guided Therapy with the
acquisition of EPD Solutions, an innovator in imageguided procedures for cardiac arrhythmias. We
announced a partnership with Innovative Imaging
Technologies to launch an industry-first integrated teleultrasound solution based on Philips’ Lumify portable
ultrasound system. We also announced a partnership
agreement with innovative women’s health company
Hologic to offer care professionals integrated solutions
comprising diagnostic imaging modalities, advanced

informatics and services for the screening, diagnosis
and treatment of women.
Our Diagnosis & Treatment businesses’ value
proposition to customers is based on combining our
extensive clinical experience with our broad portfolio of
technologies – making us uniquely capable to provide
meaningful solutions that ultimately can improve the
lives of the patients we serve while lowering the cost of
care delivery for our customers.
Through our various businesses, Diagnosis & Treatment
is focused on growing market share and profitability by
leveraging:
• industry-leading tailored applications and sharper
imaging to drive growth in the core and adjacencies
in Ultrasound
• our unique suite of innovative procedural solutions
to support delivery of the right therapy in real-time
in Image-Guided Therapy
• intelligent, AI-enabled applications combined with
successful innovations in our systems platforms in
Diagnostic Imaging
• enhanced offerings in oncology, cardiology and
radiology, and expanding our solutions offering,
which comprises systems, smart devices, software
and services
Philips is one of the world’s leading health technology
companies (based on sales) along with Medtronic,
General Electric and Siemens Healthineers. The
competitive landscape in the healthcare industry is
evolving with the emergence of new market players.
In 2018, the Diagnosis & Treatment segment consisted
of the following areas of business:
• Diagnostic Imaging: Magnetic Resonance Imaging,
Computed Tomography, Advanced Molecular
Imaging, Diagnostic X-Ray, as well as integrated
clinical solutions, which include radiation oncology
treatment planning, disease-specific oncology
solutions and X-Ray dose management
• Image-Guided Therapy: interventional X-ray
systems, encompassing cardiology, radiology and
surgery, and interventional imaging and therapy
devices that include Intravascular Ultrasound (IVUS),
fractional flow reserve (FFR) and instantaneous
wave-free ratio (iFR), and atherectomy catheters
and drug-coated balloons for the treatment of
coronary artery and peripheral vascular disease
• Ultrasound: imaging products focused on diagnosis,
treatment planning and guidance for cardiology,
general imaging, obstetrics/gynecology, and pointof-care applications, as well as proprietary software
capabilities to enable advanced diagnostics and
interventions.

Annual Report 2018

11

Strategy and Businesses 3.3.2

Diagnosis & Treatment
Total sales by business as a %
2018

47

Diagnostic Imaging
32

Image Guided Therapy
Ultrasound

21

Revenue is predominantly earned through the sale of
products, leasing, customer services fees and software
license fees. For certain offerings, per study fees or
outcome-based fees are earned over the contract term.
Sales channels are a mix of a direct sales force,
especially in all the larger markets, combined with
online sales portal and distributors – this varies by
product, market and price segment. Sales are mostly
driven by a direct sales force that has an intimate
knowledge of the procedures for which our devices are
used, and visits our customer base frequently.
Sales at Philips’ Diagnosis & Treatment businesses are
generally higher in the second half of the year, largely
due to the timing of new product availability and
customer spending patterns.
At year-end 2018, Diagnosis & Treatment had 27,381
employees worldwide.
With regard to regulatory compliance and quality,
please refer to Our commitment to Quality, Regulatory
Compliance and Integrity, starting on page 19.
With regard to sourcing, please refer to Supplier
indicators, starting on page 208.
2018 business highlights
Continuing the renewal of its diagnostic imaging
portfolio, Philips launched the Ingenia Elition 3.0T and
Ingenia Ambition 1.5T MR systems. Both systems offer
superb image quality while performing exams up to
50% faster. An industry first, the Ingenia Ambition
enables imaging departments to perform more
productive, helium-free operations. The company also
received CFDA approval to market its advanced Vereos
Digital PET/CT in China.
The expansion of the Ultrasound business beyond its
core strength in cardiac ultrasound into attractive
adjacencies continues to be successful, driven by
innovations such as an advanced transducer optimized
for OB/GYN and General Imaging applications, and the
telehealth capabilities of its Lumify app-based
ultrasound solution.
As a leader in image-guided therapy, Philips launched
its EPIQ CVxi ultrasound system combined with the
latest version of its unique EchoNavigator software
specifically designed for minimally invasive structural
heart repairs, a fast-growing image-guided therapy
segment.

12

Annual Report 2018

Philips’ Image-Guided Therapy Devices continued its
strong momentum, supported by a growing amount of
clinical data. Results from the DEFINE FLAIR trial
demonstrated that an iFR-guided strategy reduces
costs, improves patient comfort compared to an FFRguided strategy, and delivers consistent patient
outcomes. The adoption of Philips’ proprietary iFR
technology also reached a major milestone after its
inclusion in the European Society of Cardiology’s
updated guidelines for the assessment of coronary
artery lesions.
To further strengthen Philips’ businesses through
targeted acquisitions, the company acquired EPD
Solutions, an innovator that has developed a
breakthrough technology for image-guided treatments
for cardiac arrhythmia.
Philips launched an extension to the successful Azurion
image-guided therapy platform, setting a new standard
in the industry. Azurion with FlexArm includes
innovations for optimal visualization across the whole
patient in 2D and 3D to simplify and enhance a broad
range of procedures. Additionally, Philips announced
the enrolment of the first patient in the new Stellarex
ILLUMENATE Below-the-Knee (BTK) Investigational
Device Exemption (IDE) study in the US.

3.3.2 Connected Care & Health Informatics
businesses
Dr. Carla Kriwet is Chief Business Leader of the
Connected Care & Health Informatics businesses
segment. Prior to assuming her current role in February
2017, Carla led Philips’ Patient Care & Monitoring
Solutions business group and was the Philips Market
Leader of Germany, Austria & Switzerland. Before this,
she held leadership positions with ABB Daimler-Benz,
The Boston Consulting Group, Linde AG and
Draegerwerk in Europe and Asia. Carla is a member of
the Supervisory Boards of Carl Zeiss AG and Save the
Children Germany.
About Connected Care & Health Informatics
businesses in 2018
Spanning the entire health continuum, the Connected
Care & Health Informatics businesses (as per the 2018
reporting structure) aim to improve patient outcomes,
increase efficiency and enhance patient and caregiver
satisfaction, driving towards value-based care. Our
solutions build on Philips’ strength in patient monitoring
and clinical informatics to improve clinical and
economic outcomes in all care settings, within and
outside the hospital.
Philips has a deep understanding of clinical care and
the patient experience that, when coupled with our
consultative approach, allows us to be an effective
partner for transformation, both across the enterprise
and at the level of the individual clinician. Philips
delivers services that take the burden off hospital staff
with optimized patient and data flow, a smooth
integration process, improved workflow, customized
training and improved accessibility across our
application landscape.

Strategy and Businesses 3.3.2

This requires a secure common digital platform that
connects and aligns consumers, patients, payers and
healthcare providers. Philips’ platforms aggregate and
leverage information from clinical, personal and
historical data to support care providers in delivering
first-time-right diagnoses and treatment. Philips
continually builds out new capabilities within Philips
HealthSuite – a cloud-based connected health
ecosystem of devices, apps and digital tools – to
accomplish just that. For information on how Philips
manages cybersecurity risk, please refer to Operational
risks, starting on page 55.
Philips delivers personalized insights by applying
predictive analytics and artificial intelligence across our
solutions. As an example, we are able to support
healthcare professionals caring for elderly patients
living independently at home in making clinical
decisions and alerting medical teams to potential
issues. Our integrated and data-driven approach
promotes seamless patient care, helps identify risks and
needs of different groups within a population, and
provides clinical decision support.
In 2018, the Connected Care & Health Informatics
segment consisted of the following areas of business:
• Monitoring & Analytics is a solutions business
enabling smart decision-making for caregivers,
administrators and patients, to help control costs,
increase efficiency, and support better health.
Monitoring & Analytics solutions encompass:
integrated patient monitoring systems for all price
levels, wearable biosensors, advanced intelligence
platforms providing key insights and clinical decision
support to clinicians when and where they need it,
for real-time clinical information at the patient’s
bedside; patient analytics, including diagnostic ECG
data management for improved quality of cardiac
care; the eICU/Tele-ICU program. Monitoring &
Analytics also includes maintenance, clinical and IT
services as well as consumables.
• Therapeutic Care is expanding access to and quality
of respiratory care, resuscitation, and emergency
care solutions (including devices, services, and
digital/data solutions). Hospital Respiratory Care
(HRC) and Emergency Care & Resuscitation (ECR)
solutions are helping caregivers both inside and
outside the hospital, including cardiac resuscitation,
emergency care solutions, invasive and non-invasive
ventilators for acute and sub-acute hospital
environments and respiratory monitoring devices;
consumables across the patient monitoring and
therapeutic care businesses; customer service,
including clinical, IT, technical and remote customer
propositions. In 2018, Philips acquired Remote
Diagnostic Technologies (RDT), a UK-based leading
innovator of advanced solutions for the pre-hospital
market providing monitoring, cardiac therapy and
data management. RDT’s portfolio of comprehensive
connected emergency care solutions complements
and strengthens Philips’ current range of proven
monitoring and therapeutic products and solutions

to help emergency medical services, hospitals and
lay responders accelerate the delivery of care at the
scene.
• Healthcare Informatics: This business includes:
advanced healthcare IT, clinical and advanced
visualization and quantification informatics solutions
for radiology, cardiology and oncology departments;
Universal Data Management solutions, Picture
Archiving and Communication Systems (PACS) and
fully integrated Electronic Medical Record (EMR)
systems to support healthcare enterprises in
optimizing health system performance; advanced
clinical and hospital IT platforms which are
leveraged across Philips. Our IntelliSpace Portal
application platform is recognized as industryleading by KLAS. We use artificial intelligence at the
point of care to optimize the clinician experience,
help improve productivity and total cost of
ownership, and streamline patient experiences
across the clinical pathway. Proof of clinical and
economic outcomes, connectivity and cybersecurity
are key priorities of our engagement with our
customers. The acquisition of interoperability
software solutions provider Forcare provides Philips
with critical standards and interoperability expertise
to interconnect healthcare information systems,
share and exchange clinical data, and offer secure
and reliable access to digital health information for
medical staff and patients across multiple
organizations and care settings.
• Population Health Management: Our services and
solutions leverage data, analytics and actionable
workflow products for solutions to improve clinical
and financial results and increase patient
engagement, satisfaction and compliance. These
solutions include: technology-enabled monitoring
and intervention support outside the hospital
(telehealth, remote patient monitoring, personal
emergency response systems and care coordination)
to improve the experience of elderly people and
those living with chronic conditions; actionable
programs to predict risk (including medication and
care compliance, outreach, and fall prediction);
cloud-based solutions for health organizations to
manage population health. Leveraging our
acquisitions of Wellcentive, VitalHealth and
BlueWillow Systems, our solutions enable health
systems to analyze their patient population along
clinical and financial criteria, coordinate care outside
the hospital, and engage patients in their health.
They help drive quality improvement and business
transformation for those transitioning to valuebased care.

Annual Report 2018

13

Strategy and Businesses 3.3.3

Connected Care & Health InformatIcs
Total sales by business as a %
2018

leadership position in the estimated EUR 1.4 billion
resuscitation and emergency care market.

61

Monitoring & Analytics
17

Therapeutic Care

15

Healthcare Informatics
Population Health Management

7

Revenue is earned through the sale of products and
solutions, customer services fees and software license
fees. Where bundled offerings result in solutions for our
customers or offerings are based on number of people
being monitored, we see more usage-based earnings
models.
Sales channels include a mix of a direct salesforce,
partly paired with an online sales portal and distributors
(varying by product, market and price segment). Sales
are mostly driven by a direct salesforce with an intimate
knowledge of the procedures that use our integrated
solutions’ smart devices, systems, software and
services. Philips works with customers and partners to
co-create solutions, drive commercial innovation and
adapt to new models such as monitoring-as-a-service.
Sales at Philips’ Connected Care & Health Informatics
businesses are generally higher in the second half of
the year, largely due to customer spending patterns.
At year-end 2018, Connected Care & Health Informatics
had 10,517 employees worldwide.
With regard to regulatory compliance and the consent
decree agreed to by Philips and the US government, as
announced in Philips’ press release on October 11, 2017,
please refer to Consent Decree, starting on page 20.
With regard to sourcing, please refer to Supplier
indicators, starting on page 208.
2018 business highlights
Building on its strengths in healthcare informatics,
Philips entered into a multi-year partnership agreement
with St. Andrew’s Toowoomba Hospital in Australia for
the hospital-wide installation of Philips Tasy and an
integrated EMR system improving patient care and
safety, hospital management, supply and financials.
Philips will fully digitize the hospital’s entire care
management processes and enable anytime, anywhere
access to clinical analytics.
Philips partnered with Children’s Health in Dallas – one
of the top pediatric hospitals in the US – to improve
pediatric care with its patient monitoring and healthcare
informatics solutions.
Philips acquired Remote Diagnostic Technologies, a
leading provider of advanced monitoring, cardiac
therapy and data management solutions for the prehospital market. RDT’s portfolio will complement
Philips’ Therapeutic Care business and strengthen its
14

Annual Report 2018

Highlighting Philips’ leadership in healthcare
informatics, IntelliSpace Portal, Philips’ advanced data
integration, visualization and analysis platform, was
named 2018 Category Leader in the Advanced
Visualization category in the 2018 Best in KLAS:
Software & Services report.
Philips and Miami's Jackson Health System – one of the
largest public health systems in the US – entered into
an agreement involving an industry-first ‘enterprise
patient monitoring as a service’ business model. This
will enable Jackson to standardize patient monitoring at
all acuity levels for each care setting across its network
for a per-patient fee.
Partnering with Showa University, Philips launched the
first tele-intensive care eICU program in Japan. This
delivers near real-time remote patient monitoring and
early intervention through predictive analytics and
advanced audio-visual technology. It has already been
successfully implemented in the US, the UK, Australia
and the Middle East.
To expand its leadership in patient monitoring solutions,
Philips launched FocusPoint, a web-based operational
performance management application for its patient
monitoring solutions. The application aggregates,
processes and stores statistical and alert information,
which are presented on a dashboard for optimal
management of the technology.
Philips partnered with the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute
to deploy best practices in cancer care. The
incorporation of the Institute’s Clinical Pathways in
Philips’ IntelliSpace Oncology Platform will help
oncologists reach the most appropriate cancer
treatments for patients, based on a unified view of the
patient across diagnostic modalities and the embedded
knowledge of both partners.
NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital selected Philips’
IntelliSpace Enterprise Edition as its in-hospital clinical
decision support platform to help address the
Quadruple Aim of improved patient experience, better
health outcomes, improved staff experience, and lower
cost of care across its sites.
Leveraging Philips’ expertise in remote monitoring
solutions, the company partnered with DartmouthHitchcock Health in the US to implement Philips’ eICU
technology at their hospital sites. Following the success
of similar programs across the globe, DartmouthHitchcock Health is the latest health system to
incorporate this telehealth model to improve critical
care support across multiple sites.

3.3.3 Personal Health businesses
Roy Jakobs was appointed Chief Business Leader of the
Personal Health businesses effective October 1, 2018,
succeeding Egbert van Acht. Roy joined Philips in 2010

Strategy and Businesses 3.3.3

as Chief Marketing Officer for Philips Lighting and in
2012 he became Market Leader for Philips Middle East
& Turkey. Between 2015 and 2018 he led the Domestic
Appliances business group.
About Personal Health businesses in 2018
Our Personal Health businesses (as per the 2018
reporting structure) play an important role on the health
continuum – in the healthy living, prevention and home
care stages – delivering integrated, connected and
personalized solutions that support healthier lifestyles
and those living with chronic disease.
Leveraging our deep consumer expertise and extensive
healthcare know-how, we enable people to live a
healthy life in a healthy home environment, and to
proactively manage their own health.
Supported by meaningful innovation and high-impact
marketing, we are focused on three key objectives:
• Growing our core businesses through geographical
expansion and increased penetration
• Unlocking business value through direct digital
consumer engagement, leading to higher brand
preference and recurring revenues
• Extending our core businesses with innovative
solutions and new business models to address
unmet consumer needs
Personal Health has many distinct product categories
and associated competitors, including Procter & Gamble
in Personal Care and Oral Healthcare, Groupe SEB in
Domestic Appliances, and, in 2018, ResMed in Sleep &
Respiratory Care.
In 2018, the Personal Health segment consisted of the
following areas of business:
• Health & Wellness: oral healthcare, mother and child
care
• Sleep & Respiratory Care: healthy sleeping,
respiratory care

relevant innovations and increase its accessibility,
particularly in lower-tier cities in growth geographies.
We are well positioned to capture further growth in
online sales and continue to build our digital and ecommerce capabilities.
We are leveraging connectivity to offer new business
models, partnering with other players in the health
ecosystem with the goal of extending opportunities for
people to live healthily, prevent or manage disease. We
are engaging consumers in their health journey in new
and impactful ways through social media and digital
innovation. For example, with the introduction of the
Philips Sonicare Solutions Teledentistry Service in 2018,
Philips’ Sonicare complete oral care solution has
become even more wide-reaching, enabling
professional, remote dental consultations. The Philips
Sonicare app acts as a ‘virtual hub’ for personal oral
healthcare, helping users to manage their complete oral
care on a daily basis and share brushing data with their
dental practitioners, putting personalized guidance and
advice at their fingertips.
The company’s wide portfolio of connected consumer
health platforms – such as our Sonicare dental
solutions and our Dream Family sleep care solution –
leverages Philips HealthSuite, a cloud-enabled
connected health ecosystem of devices, apps and
digital tools that enable personalized health and
continuous care.
The revenue model is mainly based on product sale at
the point in time the products are delivered to the enduser or wholesalers or distributors. In Sleep &
Respiratory Care, revenue is generated both through
product sales and through rental models whereby
revenue is generated over time.
Under normal economic conditions, Philips’ Personal
Health businesses experience seasonality, with higher
sales around key national and international events and
holidays.
At year-end 2018, Personal Health employed 22,471
people worldwide.

• Personal Care: male grooming, beauty
• Domestic Appliances: food preparation, home care
Personal Health
Total sales by business as a %
2018

Health & Wellness
Personal Care

With regard to sourcing, please refer to Supplier
indicators, starting on page 208.
20
25
31

Domestic Appliances
Sleep & Respiratory Care

With regard to regulatory compliance and quality,
please refer to Our commitment to Quality, Regulatory
Compliance and Integrity, starting on page 19.

24

Through our Personal Health businesses, we offer a
broad range of solutions in various consumer price
segments, always aiming to offer and realize premium
value. We continue to rationalize our portfolio of locally

2018 business highlights
In line with Philips’ focus on innovation, the company
launched the new Philips Sonicare ProtectiveClean
power toothbrush in North America, with further roll-out
around the world. This introduction will further boost
the profitable growth of the Oral Healthcare business.
Philips completely renewed the high-end range of its
leading male grooming portfolio with the introduction of
the Series 9000 Prestige shaver, which cuts facial hair
feeling as close as a wet blade, while being very gentle
Annual Report 2018

15

Strategy and Businesses 3.3.4

on the skin. In 2018 we passed the all-time milestone of
1 billion shavers sold – a landmark achievement by our
Personal Care business.
Philips continued the roll-out of its OneBlade male
grooming innovation, adding another 10 countries, with
many more to follow, on the way to being a EUR 200
million business just a few years after its launch.
At IFA 2018, Philips introduced the High-Speed
Connected Blender, which can help people achieve
specific health goals, such as boosting their energy,
reducing their sugar and calorie intake, or increasing
their general well-being.
The app Pregnancy+ by Philips Avent is designed to
support a healthy full-term pregnancy plus a safe
delivery and gives expectant parents a comprehensive
guide through all stages of pregnancy.
Philips’ Sleep & Respiratory Care business continues to
gain traction for its market-leading home ventilation
offerings, such as the new Trilogy Evo ventilator
platform, which is the only portable life support solution
designed to stay with patients as they change care
environments. Integrated with Care Orchestrator, Philips’
sleep and respiratory care cloud-based management
system, Trilogy Evo will help to ease the burden of
managing chronic conditions such as Chronic
Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) by allowing
physicians, clinicians, and care providers to collaborate
and coordinate care from hospital to home by storing
their patient prescription and therapy information in a
single secure location.
Philips acquired NightBalance, a digital health scale-up
company based in the Netherlands that has developed
an innovative, easy-to-use device to treat positional
obstructive sleep apnea and positional snoring.
At the consumer electronics show CES 2018, Philips
introduced SmartSleep, the world’s first and only
clinically proven wearable solution for consumers to
improve deep sleep quality for people who do not get
enough sleep. SmartSleep joins Philips’ growing
portfolio of smart digital platforms and intelligent
solutions that give consumers data-driven insights into
their health and access to professional expertise and
advice.
Highlighting the success of Philips’ patient-centric
product designs in sleep care, Philips has sold more
than 10 million DreamWear CPAP masks and cushions
in just three years after the Dream Family platform
introduction, growing the DreamWear patient interface
sales faster than the market.

3.3.4 Other
In our external reporting on Other we report on the
items Innovation & Strategy, IP Royalties, Central costs,
and other small items.

16

Annual Report 2018

About Other
Innovation & Strategy
The Innovation & Strategy organization includes, among
others, the Chief Technology Office (CTO), Research,
HealthSuite Platforms, the Chief Medical Office, Product
Engineering, Design, Strategy, and Sustainability. Our
Innovation Hubs are in Eindhoven (Netherlands),
Cambridge (USA), Bangalore (India) and Shanghai
(China).
Innovation & Strategy, in collaboration with the
operating businesses and the markets, is responsible for
directing the company strategy, in line with our growth
and profitability ambitions.
The Innovation & Strategy function facilitates innovation
from ‘idea’ to ‘market’ (I2M) as co-creator and strategic
partner for the Philips businesses, markets and partners.
It does so through cooperation between research,
design, marketing, strategy and businesses in
interdisciplinary teams along the innovation chain, from
exploration and advanced development to first-of-akind proposition development. In addition, it opens up
new value spaces beyond the direct scope of current
businesses through internal and external venturing,
manages the company-funded R&D portfolio, and
creates synergies for cross-segment initiatives and
integrated solutions.
Innovation & Strategy actively participates in Open
Innovation through relationships with academic, clinical,
industrial partners and start-ups, as well as via publicprivate partnerships. It does so in order to improve
innovation speed, effectiveness and efficiency; to
capture and generate new ideas, and to leverage thirdparty capabilities. This may include sharing the related
financial exposure and benefits.
Finally, Innovation & Strategy sets the agenda and
drives continuous improvement in the Philips product
and solution portfolio, the efficiency and effectiveness
of innovation, the creation and adoption of (digital)
platforms, and the uptake of high-impact technologies
such as data science, Artificial Intelligence and the
Internet of Things.
Chief Technology Office (CTO) and Product
Engineering organization
The CTO and Product Engineering organization is a
group of innovation teams that orchestrates innovation
across Philips’ businesses and markets, initiating gamechanging innovations that disrupt and cross boundaries
in health technology to address opportunities for better
clinical and economic outcomes and support the
associated transformation of Philips into a digital
solutions company. It encompasses the following
organizations:
• Innovation Management, responsible for end-toend innovation strategy and portfolio management,
integrated roadmaps linked to solutions, New
Business Creation Excellence, R&D competency

Strategy and Businesses 3.3.4

management, innovation performance management
and public funding programs.
• Philips Research, the co-creator and strategic
partner of the Philips businesses, markets and
complementary open innovation ecosystem
participants, driving front-end innovation and clinical
research at sites across the globe.
• Philips HealthWorks, responsible for accelerating
breakthrough innovation. HealthWorks incubates
early-stage ventures and engages with the external
start-up ecosystem.
• I2M Excellence is a global program driven centrally
to improve and harmonize Philips' capabilities,
processes and tools.
• The Chief Architect Office, responsible for defining,
steering and ensuring compliance and uptake of the
Philips HealthSuite architecture for configurable and
interoperable digital propositions.
• The Software and System Engineering Centers of
Excellence, driving adoption of industry best
practices in writing and maintaining application-level
software, modular and configurable system design
and model-based system engineering.
• Philips Innovation Services provides hardware and
embedded software development & engineering,
technology consulting, and low-volume specialized
manufacturing.
Philips HealthSuite
Philips HealthSuite constitutes our common digital
framework that connects consumers, patients,
healthcare providers, payers and partners in a cloudbased connected health ecosystem of devices, apps
and tools.
• HealthSuite Digital Platform (HSDP) is the secure
Philips cloud and IoT (Internet of Things) solution
that forms the basis for our digital software stack,
with key functionalities including hosting,
authorization, connecting, storing, sharing, and
analysis of data and applications. New functionality
is continuously being added to the platform, like
building blocks for federated data management,
workflow management, and patient engagement.
• HealthSuite Premise is the recently launched
extension of HSDP to form a hybrid-cloud solution,
offering more flexibility in deployment and
implementation.
The Philips HealthSuite Platforms are managed and
orchestrated across Innovation & Strategy and all Philips
businesses. The majority of professional and consumeroriented digital propositions offered by Philips leverage
HealthSuite, and there is also a growing number of
third-party customers doing the same.

Innovation Hubs
To drive innovation effectiveness and efficiency, and to
enable locally relevant solution creation, we have
established four Innovation Hubs for the Philips Group:
Eindhoven (Netherlands), Cambridge (US), Bangalore
(India) and Shanghai (China). Each Hub includes a
combination of technical, design and clinical
capabilities, representing Group Innovation & Strategy,
selected R&D groups from our businesses, market
innovation teams and other functions. These Hubs,
where most of the Group Innovation & Strategy
organization is concentrated, complement the
business-specific innovation capabilities of our R&D
centers that are integrated in our global business sites.
• Philips Innovation Center Eindhoven is Philips’
largest cross-functional Innovation Hub worldwide,
hosting the global headquarters of many of our
innovation organizations as well as many
collaboration partnerships. Many of the company’s
core research programs are run from here.
• Philips Innovation Center Cambridge, MA is focused
on Data Science and AI, among other things. Being
within close proximity to the MIT campus and clinical
collaboration partners allows researchers to
collaborate easily on jointly defined research
programs, validate clinical relevance, as well as to
participate in Open Innovation projects.
• Philips Innovation Center Bangalore hosts activities
from most of our operating businesses, Research,
Design, Intellectual Property & Standards, and IT.
This is our largest software-focused site, with over
3,500 engineers. The Center works with growth
geographies to build market-specific solutions, and
several businesses have also located business
organizations focusing on growth geographies at the
site.
• Philips Innovation Center Shanghai combines digital
innovation, research and solutions development for
the China market, while several of its locally relevant
innovations are also finding their way globally.
Alongside the hubs, where most of the central
Innovation & Strategy organization is concentrated
together with selected business R&D and market
innovation teams, we continue to have significant, more
focused innovation capabilities integrated into key
technology centers at our other global business sites.
Chief Medical Office
The Chief Medical Office is responsible for clinical
innovation and strategy, hospital economics, clinical
evidence and market access, as well as medical thought
leadership, with a focus on the Quadruple Aim and
value-based care. This includes engaging with
stakeholders across the health continuum to extend
Philips’ leadership in health technology and acting on
new value-based reimbursement models that benefit
the patient and care provider.

Annual Report 2018

17

Strategy and Businesses 3.3.4

Leveraging the knowledge and expertise of the medical
professional community across Philips, the Chief
Medical Office includes many healthcare professionals
who practice in the world’s leading health systems.
Supporting the company’s objectives across the health
continuum, its activities include strategic guidance built
on clinical and scientific knowledge, fostering peer-topeer relationships in relevant medical communities,
liaising with medical regulatory bodies, and supporting
clinical and marketing evidence development.
Philips Design
Philips Design is the global design function for the
company, ensuring that the user experiences of our
innovations are meaningful, people-focused and locally
relevant. Design is also responsible for ensuring that the
Philips brand experience is differentiating, consistently
expressed, and drives customer preference.
Philips Design partners with stakeholders across the
organization to develop methodologies and enablers to
define value propositions, implement data-enabled
design tools and processes to create meaning from
data, and leverage Co-create methodologies to define
solutions. Our Co-create approach facilitates
collaboration with customers and patients to create
solutions that are tailored specifically to the challenges
facing them, as local circumstances and workflows are
key ingredients in the successful implementation of
solutions.
To ensure that we connect end users along the health
continuum we create a consistent experience across all
touchpoints. A key enabler for this is a consistent and
differentiating design language that applies to software,
hardware and services across our operating businesses.
In recognition of our continued excellence, Philips
Design received 141 awards in 2018.
Emerging Businesses
Emerging Businesses is a business group in emerging
spaces with a mission to bring intelligence to diagnosis
in pathology and neurology and to guide therapy. It
includes:
• Digital & Computational Pathology digitizes
diagnosis in anatomic pathology and uses Artificial
Intelligence to aid detection of disease and
progression to reduce inter-observer variability and
improve outcomes. Philips is the global market
leader in routine primary diagnosis using Digital
Pathology and the only company in the market to
have an FDA-approved solution for primary
diagnosis.
• Philips Neuro is focused on a mission to advance
neuroscience for better care. The business provides
an integrated neurology solution comprising Full
Head HD EEG with diagnostic imaging to map brain
activity and anatomy for a wide range of neuro
disorders, and uses machine learning to improve
diagnosis of various neuro disorders.

18

Annual Report 2018

IP Royalties
Philips Intellectual Property & Standards (IP&S)
proactively pursues the creation of new Intellectual
Property (IP) in close co-operation with Philips’
operating businesses and Innovation & Strategy. IP&S is
a leading industrial IP organization providing worldclass IP solutions to Philips’ businesses to support their
growth, competitiveness and profitability.
Royal Philips’ total IP portfolio currently consists of
65,000 patent rights, 39,400 trademarks, 61,300 design
rights and 3,200 domain names. Philips filed 1,120 new
patents in 2018, with a strong focus on the growth areas
in health technology services and solutions.
IP&S participates in the setting of standards to create
new business opportunities for the Philips operating
businesses. A substantial portion of revenue and costs
is allocated to the operating businesses. License fees
and royalties are earned on the basis of usage, or fixed
fees over the term of the contract.
Philips believes its business as a whole is not materially
dependent on any particular patent or license, or any
particular group of patents and licenses.
Central costs
We recharge the directly attributable part of the central
costs to the business segments. The remaining part
includes the Executive Committee, Brand Management
and Sustainability, as well as functional services such as
IT and Real Estate.
Real estate
Philips is present in more than 70 countries globally and
has its corporate headquarters located in Amsterdam,
the Netherlands. Our real estate sites are well spread
around the globe, with key manufacturing and R&D
sites in the Americas, Asia and Europe. In 2018, we
reduced our footprint in India (Chennai, Pune),
Indonesia (Jakarta) and China. We also rightsized and
upgraded our Milan, Madrid, Zurich and Herrsching sites
in Europe and expanded our global business solutions
in India, Poland and the United States. To attract R&D
talent, we invested in R&D locations such as Bangalore,
Shanghai, Eindhoven and others. We also made
strategic investments in manufacturing sites in the
Americas and Asia. The vast majority of our locations
consist of leased property, and we manage these
closely to keep the overall vacancy rates of our property
below 5% and to ensure the right level of space
efficiency and flexibility to follow our business dynamic.
The net book value of our land and buildings at
December 31, 2018, represented EUR 621 million;
construction in progress represented EUR 46 million.
Our current facilities are adequate to meet the
requirements of our present and foreseeable future
operations.

Strategy and Businesses 3.4

3.4 Our commitment to Quality,
Regulatory Compliance and Integrity
Our business success depends on the quality of our
products, services and solutions and compliance with
many regulations and standards. We continue on our
transformation journey to have customer-focused
global processes, procedures, standards and a quality
mindset to help us maintain the highest possible level
of quality in all our products.
For Philips, as a business with a significant global
footprint, compliance with evolving regulations and
standards including data privacy and cybersecurity has
resulted, and may continue to result, in increased costs,
new compliance challenges, and the threat of increased
regulatory enforcement activity. Our business relies on
the secure electronic transmission, storage and hosting
of sensitive information, including personal information,
protected health information, financial information,
intellectual property and other sensitive information
related to our customers and workforce. For information
on how Philips manages cybersecurity risk, please refer
to Operational risks, starting on page 55.
Philips actively maintains FDA/ISO Quality Systems
globally that establish standards for its product design,
manufacturing, and distribution processes. Our
businesses are subject to compliance with regulatory
product approval and quality system requirements in
every market we serve, and to specific requirements of
local and national regulatory authorities including the
US FDA, the NMPA in China and comparable agencies
in other countries, as well as the European Union’s
Waste from Electrical and Electronic Equipment
(WEEE), Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS)
and Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and
Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), Energy-using
Products (EuP) and Product Safety Regulations. We
have a growing portfolio of medically regulated
products in our Health & Wellness, Personal Care and
Sleep & Respiratory Care businesses. Through our
growing oral healthcare, mother and child care and
beauty product portfolio the range of applicable
regulations has been extended to include requirements
relating to cosmetics and, on a very small scale,
pharmaceuticals.

come into effect by May 2020. The company has
engaged in a top-to-bottom review of our full portfolio
of products and solutions that fall under the mandate,
and has developed a robust and detailed framework for
a seamless transition by the time the Medical Device
Regulation is operative. We will make a one-time EU
MDR investment, estimated at EUR 45 million, in 2019,
in addition to ongoing compliance costs for the new
regulations of around EUR 25 million per year. We
believe the global regulatory environment will continue
to evolve, which could impact the cost, the time needed
to approve, and ultimately, our ability to maintain
existing approvals or obtain future approvals for our
products.
Philips is committed to delivering the highest quality
products, services and solutions compliant to all
applicable laws and standards. We are investing
substantially in driving quality into our culture, reaping
the benefits of our improvement efforts addressing the
past and positioning for the future. We will continue to
raise the performance bar. Quality is embedded in the
evaluation of all senior management. With consistency
of purpose, top-down accountability, standardization,
leveraging continuous improvement we aim to drive
greater speed in the adoption of a quality mindset
throughout the enterprise.
While pursuing our business objectives, we aim to be a
responsible partner in society, acting with integrity
towards our employees, customers, business partners
and shareholders, as well as the wider community in
which we operate. The Philips General Business
Principles (GBP) incorporate and represent the
fundamental principles by which all Philips businesses
and employees around the globe must abide. They set
the minimum standard for business conduct, both for
individual employees and for the company and our
subsidiaries. More information on the Philips GBP can
be found in Our approach to risk management, starting
on page 50. The results of the monitoring measures in
place are given in General Business Principles, starting
on page 204.

In almost all cases, new products that we introduce are
subject to a regulatory approval process (e.g. premarket notification – the 510(k) process – or pre-market
approval (PMA) for FDA approvals in the USA, the CE
Mark in the European Union). Failing to comply with the
regulatory requirements can have severe legal
consequences. The number and diversity of regulatory
bodies in the various markets we operate in globally
adds complexity and time to product introductions.
In the EU, a new Medical Device Regulation (EU MDR)
was published in 2017, which will impose significant
additional pre-market and post-market requirements.
Since the announcement of the EU MDR, Philips has
been developing a comprehensive strategic plan to
ensure compliance with the MDR requirements that will
Annual Report 2018

19

Strategy and Businesses 3.4.1

3.4.1 Consent Decree
In October 2017, Philips North America LLC reached
agreement on a consent decree with the US
Department of Justice, representing the Food and Drug
Administration (FDA), related to compliance with
current good manufacturing practice requirements
arising from past inspections in and before 2015,
focusing primarily on Philips’ Emergency Care &
Resuscitation (ECR) business operations in Andover
(Massachusetts) and Bothell (Washington). The decree
also provides for increased scrutiny, for a period of
years, of the compliance of the other Monitoring &
Analytics businesses at these facilities with the Quality
System Regulation.
Under the decree, Philips has suspended the
manufacture and distribution, for the US market, of
external defibrillators manufactured at these facilities,
subject to certain exceptions, until FDA certifies through
inspection the facilities’ compliance with the Quality
System Regulation and other requirements of the
decree. The decree allows Philips to continue the
manufacture and distribution of certain automated
external defibrillator (AED) models and Philips can
continue to service ECR devices and provide
consumables and the relevant accessories, to ensure
uninterrupted availability of these highly reliable lifesaving devices in the US. Philips continues to be able to
export ECR devices under certain conditions. Philips is
continuing to manufacture and distribute the devices of
businesses other than ECR at these facilities.
Substantial progress has been made in our compliance
efforts. However, we cannot predict the outcome of this
matter, and the consent decree authorizes the FDA, in
the event of any violations in the future, to order us to
cease manufacturing and distributing ECR devices,
recall products, pay liquidated damages and take other
actions. We also cannot currently predict whether
additional monetary investment will be incurred to
resolve this matter or the matter’s ultimate impact on
our business.

20

Annual Report 2018

Financial performance 4

4 Financial performance
“ 2018 was a year of solid progress, as we increased sales to
EUR 18.1 billion, representing 5% comparable sales growth,
improved our operating profitability margin by 100 basis
points, delivered a strong operating cash flow of EUR 1.8
billion, and increased income from continuing operations to
EUR 1.3 billion.”Abhijit Bhattacharya, CFO Royal Philips
4.1 Performance review
Management summary
• Sales rose to EUR 18.1 billion, a nominal increase of
2%, which reflected 5% nominal growth in the
Diagnosis & Treatment businesses, a 3% sales
decline in the Connected Care & Health Informatics
businesses and a 1% decline in the Personal Health
businesses. On a comparable basis*) the 5% growth
reflected 7% growth in the Diagnosis & Treatment
businesses, higher IP royalty income, 3% growth in
the Personal Health businesses, and flat sales in the
Connected Care & Health Informatics businesses.
• Net income amounted to EUR 1.1 billion, a decrease
of EUR 773 million compared to 2017, mainly due to
the deconsolidation of Signify (formerly Philips
Lighting). Net income is not allocated to segments as
certain income and expense line items are
monitored on a centralized basis.
• Adjusted EBITA*) totaled EUR 2.4 billion, or 13.1% of
sales, an increase of EUR 213 million, or 100 basis
points as a % of sales, compared to 2017. The
productivity programs delivered annual savings of
approximately EUR 466 million, ahead of the
targeted savings of EUR 400 million, and included
approximately EUR 269 million procurement
savings, led by the Design for Excellence (DfX)
program, and EUR 197 million savings from other
productivity programs.

• On June 28, 2017, Philips announced a EUR 1.5
billion share buyback program for capital reduction
purposes. Under that program, which was initiated in
the third quarter of 2017, Philips repurchased shares
in the open market and entered into a number of
forward transactions, some of which are to be
settled in Q2 2019. As the program was initiated for
capital reduction purposes, Philips intends to cancel
all of the shares acquired under the program.
• On January 29, 2019, Philips announced a new
share buyback program for an amount of up to EUR
1.5 billion. Philips started the program in the first
quarter of 2019 and expects to complete it within
two years. As the program was initiated for capital
reduction purposes, Philips intends to cancel all
shares acquired under the program. The program will
be executed by an intermediary to allow for
purchases in the open market during both open and
closed periods.
• As of December 31, 2018, Philips’ shareholding in
Signify (formerly Philips Lighting) was 16.5% of
Signify's issued share capital. For further information,
refer to Sell-down Signify shares (former Philips
Lighting), starting on page 34.

• Net cash provided by operating activities amounted
to EUR 1.8 billion, a decrease of EUR 90 million
compared to 2017, as higher earnings were offset by
higher working capital outflows. Free cash flow*)
amounted to EUR 984 million, which includes a EUR
176 million outflow related to pension liability derisking and an early bond redemption.

Annual Report 2018

21

Financial performance 4.1.1

Philips Group
Key data in millions of EUR unless otherwise stated
2016 - 2018
2016
Sales

17,422

4.1.1 Results of operations
2017

2018

17,780

18,121

Nominal sales growth

4%

2%

2%

Comparable sales growth 1)

5%

4%

5%

1,464

1,517

1,719

8.4%

8.5%

9.5%

(442)

(137)

(213)

11

(4)

(2)

Income from operations
as a % of sales
Financial expenses, net
Investments in associates, net of
income taxes
Income tax expense
Income from continuing operations

(349)

(193)

Nominal sales growth (%)

1,028

1,310

Comparable sales growth (%) 1)

660

843

(213)

1,491

1,870

1,097

Adjusted EBITA 1)

1,921

2,153

2,366

as a % of sales

11.0%

12.1%

13.1%

0.89

1.24

1.08

1.54

1.39

1.76

1)
Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and reconciliation
of the most directly comparable IFRS measure, refer to
Reconciliation of non-IFRS information, starting on page 90.
2)
Shareholders in this table refers to shareholders of Koninklijke
Philips N.V.
3)

The presentation of 2017 information has been updated
compared to the information previously published to adjust for
elements of Net income that were attributable to discontinued
operations.

*)

Diagnosis & Treatment businesses

831

Net income

Adjusted income from continuing
operations attributable to
shareholders 2) per common share (in
EUR) - diluted 1)

Philips Group
Sales in millions of EUR unless otherwise stated
2016 - 2018

(203)

Discontinued operations, net of
income taxes

Income from continuing operations
attributable to shareholders 2) per
common share (in EUR) - diluted 3)

Sales
The composition of sales growth in percentage terms in
2018, compared to 2017 and 2016, is presented in the
table below.

Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and
reconciliation of the most directly comparable IFRS
measure, refer to Reconciliation of non-IFRS information,
starting on page 90.

Connected Care & Health
Informatics
businesses

2016

2017

2018

6,686

6,891

7,245

3.1

3.1

5.1

3.6

3.5

6.8

3,158

3,163

3,084

Nominal sales growth (%)

4.5

0.2

(2.5)

Comparable sales growth (%) 1)

4.5

3.2

0.3

Personal Health businesses

7,099

7,310

7,228

Nominal sales growth (%)

5.2

3.0

(1.1)

Comparable sales growth (%) 1)

7.2

5.6

3.3

Other
Philips Group

479
17,422

416

564

17,780

18,121

Nominal sales growth (%)

3.7

2.1

1.9

Comparable sales growth (%) 1)

4.9

3.9

4.7

1)
Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and reconciliation
of the most directly comparable IFRS measure, refer to
Reconciliation of non-IFRS information, starting on page 90.

Group sales amounted to EUR 18,121 million in 2018, an
increase of 2% on a nominal basis. Adjusted for a 2.8%
negative currency effect and consolidation impact,
comparable sales*) were 5% above 2017.
Diagnosis & Treatment businesses
In 2018, sales amounted to EUR 7,245 million, 5% higher
than in 2017 on a nominal basis. Excluding a 1.7%
negative currency effect and consolidation impact,
comparable sales*) increased by 7%, reflecting doubledigit growth in Image-Guided Therapy and Ultrasound
and low-single-digit growth in Diagnostic Imaging.
Connected Care & Health Informatics businesses
In 2018, sales amounted to EUR 3,084 million, a
decrease of 2% on a nominal basis compared to 2017.
Excluding a 3% negative currency effect and
consolidation impact, comparable sales*) remained flat,
reflecting low-single-digit growth in Healthcare
Informatics while Monitoring & Analytics and
Therapeutic Care remained flat year-on-year.
Therapeutic Care includes a negative impact from the
consent decree of a 135 basis points.
Personal Health businesses
In 2018, sales amounted to EUR 7,228 million, a nominal
decrease of 1% compared to 2017. Excluding a 4%
negative currency effect and consolidation impact,
comparable sales*) were 3% higher year-on-year,
reflecting high-single-digit growth in Sleep &
Respiratory Care and low-single-digit growth in

22

Annual Report 2018

Financial performance 4.1.1

Personal Care and Domestic Appliances, while Health &
Wellness remained flat year-on-year.
Other
In 2018, sales amounted to EUR 564 million, compared
to EUR 416 million in 2017. The increase was mainly due
to higher IP royalty income and revenue from
innovation. Following deconsolidation at the end of
November 2017, license income from Signify (formerly
Philips Lighting) is reported as third-party sales.

Diagnosis & Treatment businesses
Philips Group
Diagnosis & Treatment businesses sales in millions of EUR unless
otherwise stated
2016 - 2018
2016

2017

2018

Western Europe

1,368

1,366

1,463

North America

2,592

2,340

2,449

Other mature geographies

763

751

775

Total mature geographies

4,471

4,566

4,829

Growth geographies
Sales

2,215

2,325

2,416

6,686

6,891

7,245

Performance per geographic cluster

Nominal sales growth (%)

3%

3%

5%

Philips Group
Sales by geographic area in millions of EUR unless otherwise stated
2016 - 2018

Comparable sales growth
(%) 1)

4%

3%

7%

2016

2017

2018

Western Europe

3,756

3,802

3,990

North America

6,279

6,409

6,338

Other mature geographies

1,792

1,707

1,892

Total mature geographies

11,826

11,918

12,221

Nominal sales growth (%)

3.9

0.8

2.5

Comparable sales growth (%) 1)

3.3

1.9

3.3

Growth geographies

5,596

5,862

5,901

Nominal sales growth (%)

3.2

4.8

0.7

Comparable sales growth (%) 1)

8.4

8.0

7.6

17,422

17,780

18,121

Philips Group

1)
Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and reconciliation
of the most directly comparable IFRS measure, refer to
Reconciliation of non-IFRS information, starting on page 90.

Sales in mature geographies in 2018 were EUR 303
million higher than in 2017, or 3% higher on both a
nominal and a comparable basis*). Sales in Western
Europe were 5% higher year-on-year on a nominal
basis and 3% higher on a comparable basis*).
Comparable sales*) in Western Europe reflected highsingle-digit growth in the Connected Care & Health
Informatics businesses, mid-single-digit growth in the
Diagnosis & Treatment businesses, and a low-single
digit decline in the Personal Health businesses. Sales in
North America decreased by EUR 72 million, or 1% on a
nominal basis, and increased 1% on a comparable
basis*). Comparable sales*) in North America reflected
mid-single-digit growth in the Diagnosis & Treatment
businesses, flat sales in the Personal Health businesses,
and a mid-single-digit decline in the Connected Care &
Health Informatics businesses. Sales in other mature
geographies increased by 11% on a nominal basis and
by 14% on a comparable basis*). Comparable sales* in
other mature geographies showed high-single-digit
growth in the Personal Health businesses and midsingle-digit growth in the Diagnosis & Treatment
businesses and Connected Care & Health Informatics
businesses.
Sales in growth geographies in 2018 were EUR 39
million higher than in 2017, an increase of 1% on a
nominal basis. The 8% increase on a comparable basis*)
reflected double-digit growth in the Diagnosis &
Treatment businesses and high-single-digit growth in
the Connected Care & Health Informatics businesses
and Personal Health businesses. The increase was
driven by double-digit growth in Latin America and
mid-single-digit growth in China.

1)

Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and reconciliation
of the most directly comparable IFRS measure, refer to
Reconciliation of non-IFRS information, starting on page 90.

From a geographic perspective, nominal sales in growth
geographies increased by 4% in 2018, while comparable
sales*) showed double-digit growth, driven by doubledigit growth in China and Latin America. Sales in mature
geographies increased by 6% on a nominal basis, while
comparable sales*) showed mid-single-digit growth,
reflecting mid-single-digit growth in North America,
Western Europe and other mature geographies.
Connected Care & Health Informatics businesses
Philips Group
Connected care & Health Informatics in millions of EUR unless
otherwise stated
2016 - 2018
Western Europe
North America

2016

2017

472

485

2018
554

1,906

1,925

1,774

Other mature geographies

311

295

297

Total mature geographies

2,689

2,705

2,624

Growth geographies

469

458

460

3,158

3,163

3,084

Nominal sales growth (%)

5%

0%

(2)%

Comparable sales growth
(%) 1)

4%

3%

0%

Sales

1)

Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and reconciliation
of the most directly comparable IFRS measure, refer to
Reconciliation of non-IFRS information, starting on page 90.

From a geographic perspective, sales on a nominal
basis remained flat in growth geographies in 2018 and
on a comparable basis*) showed high-single-digit
growth, reflecting double-digit growth in Latin America
and low-single-digit growth in China. Sales in mature
geographies decreased by 3% on a nominal basis and
showed a low-single-digit decline on a comparable
basis*), reflecting high-single-digit growth in Western
Europe and mid-single-digit growth in other mature
geographies, offset by a mid-single-digit decline in
North America.

Annual Report 2018

23

Financial performance 4.1.1

Personal Health businesses
Philips Group
Personal Health In millions of EUR unless otherwise stated
2016 - 2018
Western Europe
North America

2016

2017

1,800

1,820

2018
1,797

1,901

1,936

1,894

Other mature geographies

643

615

636

Total mature geographies

4,344

4,371

4,327

Growth geographies

2,755

2,939

2,901

Sales

7,099

7,310

7,228

Nominal sales growth (%)

5%

3%

(1)%

Comparable sales growth
(%) 1)

7%

6%

3%

Selling expenses
Selling expenses amounted to EUR 4,500 million in
2018, or 24.8% of sales, compared to EUR 4,398 million,
or 24.7% of sales, in 2017. Selling expenses in 2018
included EUR 86 million of restructuring and
acquisition-related charges, compared to EUR 127
million in 2017. Selling expenses in 2018 also included a
EUR 18 million charge related to the conclusion of the
European Commission investigation into retail pricing
and EUR 16 million related to the consent decree.
Selling expenses in 2017 also included EUR 9 million
related to the separation of Philips Lighting and EUR 4
million of charges related to the consent decree.

1)

Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and reconciliation
of the most directly comparable IFRS measure, refer to
Reconciliation of non-IFRS information, starting on page 90.

Sales in growth geographies decreased 1% on a nominal
basis in 2018 and on a comparable basis*) showed highsingle-digit growth, reflecting double-digit growth in
Central & Eastern Europe, high-single-digit growth in
Latin America, and low-single-digit growth in Middle
East & Turkey. Sales in mature geographies decreased
1% on a nominal basis and on a comparable basis*)
showed low-single-digit growth, reflecting high-singledigit growth in other mature geographies, flat sales in
North America, and a low-single-digit decline in
Western Europe.
Gross margin
In 2018, Philips’ gross margin increased to EUR 8,554
million, or 47.2% of sales, from EUR 8,181 million, or
46.0% of sales, in 2017. Gross margin in 2018 included
EUR 79 million of restructuring and acquisition-related
charges, whereas 2017 included EUR 98 million of
restructuring and acquisition-related charges. 2018 also
included EUR 28 million of charges related to the
consent decree focused on defibrillator manufacturing
in the US. Gross margin in 2017 also included EUR 40
million of charges related to quality and regulatory
actions, EUR 14 million of charges related to the consent
decree and a EUR 36 million net release of legal
provisions. The year-on-year increase was mainly
driven by improved operational performance in the
Diagnosis & Treatment businesses, Personal Health
businesses and higher IP royalty income.

24

Annual Report 2018

General and administrative expenses
General and administrative expenses increased to EUR
631 million, or 3.5% of sales, in 2018, compared to EUR
577 million, or 3.2% of sales, in 2017. 2018 included EUR
29 million of restructuring and acquisition relatedcharges, compared to EUR 19 million in 2017. 2017 also
included charges of EUR 21 million related to the
separation of Philips Lighting.
Research and development expenses
Research and development costs decreased from EUR
1,764 million, or 9.9% of sales, in 2017 to EUR 1,759
million, or 9.7% of sales, in 2018. Research and
development costs in 2018 included EUR 64 million of
restructuring and acquisition-related charges, compared
to EUR 72 million in 2017. 2018 also included EUR 12
million of charges related to the consent decree.
Philips Group
Research and development expenses in millions of EUR unless
otherwise stated
2016 - 2018
2016

2017

2018

Diagnosis & Treatment

629

715

756

Connected Care & Health Informatics

388

399

371

Personal Health

412

415

425

Other

240

235

207

Philips Group

1,669

1,764

1,759

As a % of sales

9.6%

9.9%

9.7%

Financial performance 4.1.1

Net income, Income from operations (EBIT) and
Adjusted EBITA*)
Net income is not allocated to segments as certain
income and expense line items are monitored on a
centralized basis, resulting in them being shown on a
Philips Group level only.
The overview below shows Income from operations and
Adjusted EBITA*) according to the 2018 segment
classifications.
Philips Group
Income from operations and Adjusted EBITA 1) in millions of EUR
unless otherwise stated
2016 - 2018
Income
from
as a %
Adjusted
as a % of
operations of sales
EBITA1)
sales
2018
Diagnosis &
Treatment
Connected
Care & Health
Informatics

600

8.3%

838

11.6%

179

5.8%

341

11.1%

Personal
Health

1,045

14.5%

1,215

16.8%

Other

(105)

Philips Group

1,719

(28)
9.5%

2,366

Diagnosis &
Treatment

488

7.1%

716

10.4%

Connected
Care & Health
Informatics

372

11.8%

1,221

16.7%

206

6.5%

Personal
Health

1,075

14.7%

Other

(252)

Philips Group

1,517

8.5%

2,153

12.1%

546

8.2%

631

9.4%

(157)

2016

Connected
Care & Health
Informatics
Personal
Health

275

8.7%

953

13.4%

Other

(310)

Philips Group

1,464

324

10.3%

1,108

15.6%

(142)
8.4%

1,921

Adjusted EBITA*) amounted to EUR 2,366 million, or
13.1% of sales, and improved by EUR 213 million, or 100
basis points as a % of sales, compared to 2017. The
improvement was mainly due to growth, operational
improvements and higher IP royalty income.
The 2018 performance resulted in an increase of Income
from continuing operations per share of 29% from 1.08
in 2017 to EUR 1.39 in 2018. Adjusted income from
continuing operations attributable to shareholders per
common share*) increased by 14% from 1.54 in 2017 to
EUR 1.76 in 2018.

13.1%

2017

Diagnosis &
Treatment

of which the other EUR 12 million was recognized in
Discontinued operations. 2017 also included: EUR 47
million of charges related to quality and regulatory
actions; EUR 31 million of charges related to the
separation of the Lighting business; EUR 26 million of
provisions related to the CRT (Cathode Ray Tube)
litigation in the US; EUR 22 million of charges related to
portfolio rationalization measures; EUR 20 million of
charges related to the consent decree; a EUR 59 million
net gain from the sale of real estate assets; a EUR 36
million net release of legal provisions.

11.0%

1)
Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and reconciliation
of the most directly comparable IFRS measure, refer to
Reconciliation of non-IFRS information, starting on page 90.

In 2018, net income decreased by EUR 773 million
compared to 2017, mainly due to the deconsolidation of
Signify.
In 2018, Income from operations increased by EUR 202
million year-on-year to EUR 1,719 million, or 9.5% of
sales. Restructuring and acquisition-related charges
amounted to EUR 258 million, compared to EUR 316
million in 2017. Income from operations in 2018 also
included: EUR 56 million of charges related to the
consent decree; EUR 18 million of the total EUR 30
million provision related to the conclusion of the
European Commission investigation into retail pricing,

Diagnosis & Treatment businesses
Income from operations increased to EUR 600 million,
or 8.3% of sales, compared to EUR 488 million, or 7.1%
of sales, in 2017. The year 2018 included EUR 97 million
of amortization charges, compared to EUR 55 million in
2017. These charges mainly relate to intangible assets in
Image-Guided Therapy. Restructuring and acquisitionrelated charges to improve productivity were EUR 142
million, compared to EUR 151 million in 2017, which also
included the charges related to the acquisition of
Spectranetics, as well as charges of EUR 22 million
related to portfolio rationalization measures.
Adjusted EBITA*) increased by EUR 122 million and the
margin improved to 11.6%, mainly due to growth and
operational improvements.
Connected Care & Health Informatics businesses
Income from operations in 2018 decreased to EUR 179
million, compared to EUR 206 million in 2017. The year
2018 included EUR 46 million of amortization charges,
compared to EUR 44 million in 2017. These charges
mainly related to acquired intangible assets in
Population Health Management. Restructuring and
acquisition-related charges amounted to EUR 59
million, compared to EUR 91 million in 2017. The year
2018 also included EUR 56 million of charges related to
the consent decree. 2017 also included EUR 47 million
of charges related to quality and regulatory actions,
EUR 20 million of charges related to the consent decree
and a EUR 36 million net release of provisions.
Adjusted EBITA*) decreased by EUR 31 million and the
margin decreased to 11.1% of sales, mainly due to lower
growth and adverse currency impacts.

Annual Report 2018

25

Financial performance 4.1.1

Personal Health businesses
Income from operations in 2018 decreased to EUR 1,045
million, or 14.5% of sales, compared to EUR 1,075
million, or 14.7% of sales, in 2017, mainly due to a EUR 18
million charge related to the conclusion of the
European Commission investigation into retail pricing
and higher restructuring and acquisition-related
charges. The year 2018 included EUR 126 million of
amortization charges, compared to EUR 135 million in
2017. These charges mainly relate to intangible assets in
Sleep & Respiratory Care. Restructuring and acquisitionrelated charges were EUR 26 million, compared with
EUR 11 million in 2017.
Adjusted EBITA*) decreased by EUR 6 million, while the
margin improved to 16.8%, mainly due to operational
improvements offset by adverse currency impacts.
Other
In Other we report on the items Innovation, IP Royalties,
Central costs and Other.
In 2018, Income from operations totaled EUR (105)
million, compared to EUR (252) million in 2017. The year
2018 included: restructuring and acquisition-related
charges of EUR 31 million; a gain related to divestments;
a release related to a legal provision; a gain related to
movements in environmental provisions. The year 2017
included: restructuring and acquisition-related charges
of EUR 64 million; a EUR 59 million gain on the sale of
real estate assets; EUR 31 million of charges related to
the separation of Philips Lighting; EUR 26 million of
provisions related to the CRT litigation in the US; EUR 15
million of costs related to environmental provisions;
EUR 14 million of stranded costs related to the
combined Lumileds and Automotive businesses.
Adjusted EBITA*) increased by EUR 129 million
compared to 2017, mainly due to higher IP royalty
income and revenue from innovation.
Financial income and expenses
A breakdown of Financial income and expenses is
presented in the following table.
Philips Group
Financial income and expenses in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
Interest expense (net)
Sale of securities
Impairments
Other
Financial income and expenses

2016

2017

2018

(299)

(182)

(157)
6

3

1

(24)

(2)

-

(122)

46

(62)

(442)

(137)

(213)

Net interest expense in 2018 was EUR 25 million lower
than in 2017, mainly due to lower interest expenses on
pensions and lower interest expenses on net debt*).
Other financial expenses amounted to EUR 62 million in
2018, and mainly included financial charges related to
the early redemption of USD bonds of EUR 46 million.
Other financial income of EUR 46 million in 2017
included dividends from the combined businesses of

26

Annual Report 2018

Lumileds and Automotive. For further information, refer
to Financial income and expenses, starting on page 138.
Income taxes
Income taxes amounted to EUR 193 million, compared
to EUR 349 million in 2017. The effective income tax rate
in 2018 was 12.8%, compared to 25.3% in 2017. The
decrease was mainly due to one-time non-cash
benefits from tax audit resolutions and business
integrations in 2018. Net impact of the US Tax Cuts and
Jobs Act was not material in 2018.
Investment in associates
Results related to investments in associates improved
from a loss of EUR 4 million in 2017 to a loss of EUR 2
million in 2018, mainly due to a EUR 4 million
impairment in 2017.
Discontinued operations
Philips Group
Discontinued operations, net of income taxes in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
2016

2017

2018

Signify, formerly Philips Lighting

244

896

(198)

The combined Lumileds and
Automotive businesses

282

(29)

12

Other

134

(24)

(27)

660

843

(213)

Net income of Discontinued
operations

Discontinued operations mainly reflects dividends
received of EUR 32 million and a EUR 218 million loss
related to a value adjustment of the remaining interest
in Signify. In 2017, Discontinued operations included the
operating results of Signify and the combined Lumileds
and Automotive businesses of EUR 393 million and EUR
149 million respectively prior to their deconsolidation
during the course of 2017. On June 30, 2017, Philips
completed the sale of an 80.1% interest in the combined
Lumileds and Automotive businesses, which resulted in
a loss of EUR 72 million after tax in 2017, while 2018
included a EUR 8 million gain related to a final
settlement on the sale. The year 2017 also included a
EUR 599 million net gain following the deconsolidation
of Signify, a EUR 104 million charge related to the
market value of the retained interest in Signify, and a
one-time non-cash tax charge of EUR 99 million due to
the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
For further information, refer to Discontinued operations
and assets classified as held for sale, starting on page
131
Non-controlling interests
Net income attributable to non-controlling interests
decreased from EUR 214 million in 2017 to EUR 7 million
in 2018, mainly due to the deconsolidation of Philips
Lighting as from the end of November 2017.

*)

Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and
reconciliation of the most directly comparable IFRS
measure, refer to Reconciliation of non-IFRS information,
starting on page 90.

Financial performance 4.1.2

4.1.2 Pensions
In 2018, the total costs of post-employment benefits
amounted to EUR 46 million for defined-benefit plans
and EUR 327 million for defined-contribution plans.
These costs are reported in Income from operations,
except for the net interest cost component, which is
reported in Financial expense. The net interest cost for
defined-benefit plans was EUR 23 million in 2018.
The overall funded status and balance sheet improved
in 2018 from EUR 972 million to EUR 834 million, mainly
due to an additional contribution of EUR 130 million
(USD 150 million) in the US.
In 2017, the total costs of post-employment benefits
amounted to EUR 69 million for defined-benefit plans
and EUR 315 million for defined-contribution plans. The
net interest cost for defined-benefit plans was EUR 37
million in 2017.

rationalization and the reorganization of global support
functions.
In 2017, Income from operations included net
restructuring charges totaling EUR 211 million. The most
significant restructuring projects impacted the
Connected Care & Health Informatics businesses,
Diagnosis & Treatment businesses and Other, and
mainly took place in the Netherlands and the US. The
restructuring mainly comprised product portfolio
rationalization and the reorganization of global support
functions.
For further information on restructuring, refer to
Provisions, starting on page 153.
Philips Group
Acquisition-related charges in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
Diagnosis & Treatment

2017 included a settlement of the Brazil pension plans,
decreasing the defined-benefit obligation by EUR 345
million and recognizing a settlement loss of EUR 1
million.

Connected Care & Health
Informatics

For further information, refer to Post-employment
benefits, starting on page 156 .

4.1.3 Restructuring and acquisition-related
charges and goodwill impairment charges
Philips Group
Restructuring and related charges in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
2016

2017

2018

Diagnosis & Treatment

6

63

78

Connected Care & Health
Informatics

9

81

34

Restructuring and related
charges per segment:

Personal Health

16

8

21

Other

27

59

26

58

211

159

Philips Group
Cost breakdown of
restructuring and related
charges:
Personnel lay-off costs
Release of provision

63

150

136

(34)

(37)

(37)

Transfer to Assets held for sale
Restructuring-related asset
impairment
Other restructuring-related
costs
Philips Group

(5)
14

77

21

14

27

39

58

211

159

In 2018, the most significant restructuring projects
impacted Diagnosis & Treatment, Connected Care &
Health Informatics and Other businesses and mainly
took place in the Netherlands, Germany and the US.
The restructuring mainly comprised product portfolio

2017

2018

31

88

64

4

10

25

Personal Health
Other
Philips Group

The balance sheet improved in 2017 from EUR 1,997
million to EUR 972 million, mainly due to the transfer of
Lighting to Discontinued operations and an additional
contribution of EUR 219 million in the US.

2016

3

5

1

5

5

37

106

99

In 2018, acquisition-related charges amounted to EUR
99 million. The Diagnosis & Treatment businesses
recorded EUR 64 million of acquisition-related charges,
mainly related to the acquisition of Spectranetics, a USbased global leader in vascular intervention and lead
management solutions.
In 2017, acquisition-related charges amounted to EUR
106 million. The Diagnosis & Treatment businesses
recorded EUR 88 million of acquisition-related charges,
mainly related to the acquisition of Spectranetics.
Acquisition-related charges relating to Volcano were
also included as part of the Diagnosis & Treatment
businesses’ acquisition-related charges.
For further information on the goodwill sensitivity
analysis, please refer to Goodwill, starting on page 144.

4.1.4 Acquisitions and divestments
Acquisitions
In 2018, Philips completed nine acquisitions, with EPD
Solutions Ltd. (EPD) being the most notable.
Acquisitions in 2018 and prior years led to acquisition
and post-merger integration charges of EUR 64 million
in the Diagnosis & Treatment businesses and EUR 25
million in the Connected Care & Health Informatics
businesses.
In 2017, Philips completed several acquisitions, with The
Spectranetics Corporation (Spectranetics) being the
largest. Spectranetics is a US-based global leader in
vascular intervention and lead management solutions
and is present in 11 countries. Acquisitions in 2017 and
prior years led to acquisition and post-merger
integration charges of EUR 88 million in the Diagnosis &
Treatment businesses and EUR 10 million in the
Connected Care & Health Informatics businesses.
Annual Report 2018

27

Financial performance 4.1.5

Divestments
Philips completed one divestment in 2018. The
divestment involved an aggregated consideration of
EUR 58 million and resulted in a gain of EUR 44 million.
For details, please refer to Acquisitions and
divestments, starting on page 133.

4.1.5 Changes in cash and cash equivalents,
including cash flows
The movements in cash and cash equivalents for the
years ended December 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018 are
presented and explained below:
Philips Group
Condensed consolidated cash flows statements in mullions of EUR
2016 - 2018
Beginning cash balance

2016

2017

2018

1,766

2,334

1,939

Net cash flows from
operating activities

1,170

1,870

1,780

Net capital expenditures

(741)

(685)

(796)

Free cash flow 1)

429

1,185

984

Other cash flows from investing
activities

(352)

(2,514)

(690)

Treasury shares transactions

(526)

(414)

(948)

Changes in debt

(1,611)

(205)

160

Dividend paid to shareholders
of the Company

(401)

(330)

(384)

Sale of shares of Signify (former
Philips Lighting), net

825

1,060

Other cash flow items

(18)

(186)

Net cash flows discontinued
operations
Ending cash balance

(3)

2,151

1,063

647

2,334

1,939

1,688

1)
Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and reconciliation
of the most directly comparable IFRS measure, refer to
Reconciliation of non-IFRS information, starting on page 90.

Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities
Net cash flows provided by operating activities
amounted to EUR 1,780 million in 2018, compared to
EUR 1,870 million in 2017. Free cash flow*) amounted to
EUR 984 million, which included a EUR 176 million
outflow related to pension liability de-risking in the US
and premium payments related to an early bond
redemption, compared to EUR 1,185 million in 2017.
Net cash flows provided by operating activities
amounted to EUR 1,870 million in 2017, which was EUR
700 million higher than in 2016, mainly due to EUR 379
million higher earnings in 2017 and the higher outflows
recorded in 2016 related to the Masimo agreements.
Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities
In 2018, other cash flows from investing activities
amounted to a cash outflow of EUR 690 million, mainly
due to acquisitions of businesses (including acquisition
of investments in associates) amounting to EUR 628
million. EPD was the biggest acquisition in 2018,
resulting in a cash outflow of EUR 273 million, including
the subsequent payments. Net cash proceeds from
divestment of businesses amounted to EUR 70 million
and were received mainly from divested businesses
held for sale. Other investing activities mainly included
EUR 177 million net cash used for foreign exchange
derivative contracts related to activities for funding and
liquidity management.
In 2017, other cash flows from investing activities
amounted to a cash outflow of EUR 2,514 million,
mainly due to acquisitions of businesses (including
acquisition of investments in associates) amounting to
EUR 2,344 million, which included the acquisition of

28

Annual Report 2018

Financial performance 4.1.6

Spectranetics for EUR 1,908 million. Net cash proceeds
from divestment of businesses amounted to EUR 64
million and were received mainly from divested
businesses held for sale. Other investing activities
mainly included EUR 295 million net cash used for
foreign exchange derivative contracts related to
activities for funding and liquidity management, partly
offset by EUR 90 million received related to TPV
Technology Limited loans.
Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities
Treasury shares transactions mainly include the share
buy-back activities, which resulted in EUR 948 million
net cash outflow. Philips’ shareholders were given EUR
738 million in the form of a dividend, of which the cash
portion of the dividend amounted to EUR 401 million.
Changes in debt mainly reflected EUR 866 million cash
outflow related to the bond redemption and EUR 990
million cash inflow from bonds issued.
In 2017, Philips’ shareholders were given EUR 742 million
in the form of a dividend, of which the cash portion of
the dividend amounted to EUR 384 million. Net cash
proceeds from the sale of Signify shares amounted to
EUR 1,060 million. Change in debt mainly reflected EUR
1.2 billion cash outflow related to the bond redemption
and EUR 1 billion cash inflow from bonds issued.
Additionally, net cash outflows for share buy-back and
share delivery totaled EUR 414 million.

Philips Group
Net cash provided by (used for) discontinued operations in millions
of EUR
2016 - 2018
2017

*)

Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and
reconciliation of the most directly comparable IFRS
measure, refer to Reconciliation of non-IFRS information,
starting on page 90.

4.1.6 Financing
Condensed consolidated balance sheets for the years
2016, 2017 and 2018 are presented below:
Philips Group
Condensed consolidated balance sheets in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
Intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment

2018

2016

2017

2018

12,450

11,054

12,093

2,155

1,591

1,712

Inventories

3,392

2,353

2,674

Receivables

5,636

4,148

4,344

Assets classified as held for sale

2,180

1,356

87

Other assets

4,123

2,874

3,421

Payables

(6,028)

(4,492)

(3,957)

Provisions

(3,606)

(2,059)

(2,151)

Liabilities directly associated
with assets held for sale

(525)

(8)

(12)

Other liabilities

(3,052)

(2,017)

(2,962)

Net asset employed

16,725

14,799

15,249

Cash and cash equivalents

Net cash provided by (used for) discontinued
operations

2016

received from the sale of the combined Lumileds and
Automotive businesses.

2,334

1,939

1,688

Debt

(5,606)

(4,715)

(4,821)

Net debt 1)

(3,272)

(2,776)

(3,132)

(907)

(24)

(29)

Shareholders' equity

(12,546)

(11,999)

(12,088)

Financing

(16,725)

(14,799)

(15,249)

Non-controlling interests

1)

Net cash provided by (used for)
operating activities

1,037

350

(15)

Net cash provided by (used for)
investing activities

(112)

856

662

Net cash provided by (used for)
financing activities

1,226

(144)

Net cash provided by (used for)
discontinued operations

2,151

1,063

Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and reconciliation
of the most directly comparable IFRS measure, refer to
Reconciliation of non-IFRS information, starting on page 90.

647

In 2018, net cash provided by (used for) discontinued
operations amounted to EUR 647 million and mainly
included a total of EUR 642 million in relation to the
sale of Signify shares and the dividend received from
Signify reported in investing activities.
In 2017, net cash provided by (used for) operating
activities amounted to EUR 350 million and reflected
the period prior to the divestment of the combined
Lumileds and Automotive businesses (six months of
cash flows) and prior to the deconsolidation of Philips
Lighting (11 months of cash flows). In 2017, net cash
provided by (used for) investing activities amounted to
EUR 856 million and included the net cash outflow
related to the deconsolidation of Philips Lighting of EUR
175 million, (consisting of EUR 545 million proceeds
from the sale of shares on November 28, 2017, offset by
the deconsolidation of EUR 720 million of cash and
cash equivalents), and proceeds of EUR 1.1 billion

Annual Report 2018

29

Financial performance 4.1.7

4.1.7 Debt position

For further information, please refer to Debt, starting on
page 151.

Total debt outstanding at the end of 2018 was EUR
4,821 million, compared with EUR 4,715 million at the
end of 2017.

4.1.8 Liquidity position

Philips Group
Balance sheet changes in debt in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
2016
Repayments (new borrowings)
short-term debt
New borrowings long-term debt
Repayment long-term debt

1,319

4

(34)

(1,115)

(1,287)

362

(223)

Transfer to liabilities directly
associated with assets held for
sale
Decrease (increase) in debt

2018

(1,304)

Forward contracts
Currency effects, consolidation
changes and other

2017

1,332

1,161

(1,018)

124

347

(70)

1,342
154

891

In 2017, total debt decreased by EUR 891 million
compared to 2016. New borrowings of long-term debt
of EUR 1,115 million were mainly due to the issuance of
EUR 500 million floating-rate bonds due 2019 and EUR
500 million fixed-rate bonds due 2023. Repayments of
long-term debt amounted to EUR 1,332 million, mainly
due to the early redemption of the 5.750% bonds due
2018 in the aggregate principal amount of USD 1,250
million. Payment obligations from forward contracts are
mainly related to the EUR 1.5 billion share buyback
program announced in June 2017. Other changes,
mainly resulting from consolidation changes and
currency effects, led to a decrease of EUR 347 million.
EUR 1,342 million was transferred to Liabilities directly
associated with assets held for sale, mainly Lighting
debt.
At the end of 2018, long-term debt as a proportion of
the total debt stood at 71% with an average remaining
term (including current portion) of 7.9 years, compared
to 86% and 7.6 years respectively at the end of 2017.

Annual Report 2018

As of December 31, 2017, including the cash position
(cash and cash equivalents), as well as its EUR 1 billion
committed revolving credit facility, the Philips Group
had access to available liquidity of EUR 2,939 million,
versus gross debt (including short and long-term) of
EUR 4,715 million.

(105)

In 2018, total debt increased by EUR 105 million
compared to 2017. New borrowings of long-term debt of
EUR 1,287 million were mainly due to the issuance of
fixed-rate bonds, EUR 500 million due 2024 and EUR
500 million due 2028, and a new long-term loan of EUR
200 million. Repayments of long-term debt amounted
to EUR 1,161 million, mainly due to the early redemption
of all the 3.750% USD bonds due 2022 with an
aggregate principal amount of USD 1.0 billion, the
redemption of 6.875% USD bonds due 2038 with an
aggregate principal amount of USD 72 million, and the
repayment of a loan of EUR 178 million. Changes in
payment obligations from forward contracts are mainly
related to maturing forward contracts for the 2017 share
buyback program and new forward contracts entered
into for the extended share repurchase program for LTI
and stock purchase plans announced in November
2018. These payment obligations are recorded as
financial liabilities under long-term and short-term
debt. Other changes, mainly resulting from new leases
recognized and currency effects, led to an increase of
EUR 70 million.

30

As of December 31, 2018, including the cash position
(cash and cash equivalents), as well as its EUR 1 billion
committed revolving credit facility, the Philips Group
had access to available liquidity of EUR 2,688 million,
versus gross debt (including short and long-term) of
EUR 4,821 million.

Philips Group
Liquidity position in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
Cash and cash equivalents

2016

2017

2018

2,334

1,939

1,688

Committed revolving credit
facilities/CP program

2,300

1,000

1,000

Liquidity

4,634

2,939

2,688

Listed equity investments at fair
value

36

49

476

Short-term debt

(1,585)

(672)

(1,394)

Long-term debt

(4,021)

(4,044)

(3,427)

(936)

(1,728)

(1,656)

Net available liquidity resources

Royal Philips has a EUR 1 billion committed revolving
credit facility which was signed in April 2017 and will
expire in April 2023. The facility can be used for general
group purposes, such as a backstop of its Commercial
Paper Program.
The Commercial Paper Program amounts to USD 2.5
billion, under which Philips can issue commercial paper
up to 364 days in tenor, both in the US and in Europe, in
any major freely convertible currency. As of December
31, 2018, Royal Philips did not have any loans
outstanding under these facilities.
Additionally, at December 31, 2018 Philips held EUR 476
million of listed (level 1) equity investments at fair value,
mainly the remaining interest in Signify. Refer to Other
financial assets, starting on page 147 and Fair value of
financial assets and liabilities, starting on page 170.
Royal Philips’ existing long-term debt is rated A- (with
stable outlook) by Fitch, Baa1 (with stable outlook) by
Moody’s, and BBB+ (with stable outlook) by Standard &
Poor’s. As part of our capital allocation policy, our net
debt*) position is managed with the intention of
retaining a strong investment grade credit rating.
Ratings are subject to change at any time and there is
no assurance that Philips will be able to achieve this
goal. The Group’s aim when managing the net debt*)
position is dividend stability and a pay-out ratio of 40%
to 50% of adjusted income from continuing operations
attributable to shareholders*). Royal Philips’
outstanding long-term debt and credit facilities do not
contain financial covenants. Adverse changes in the

Financial performance 4.1.9

Company’s ratings will not trigger automatic withdrawal
of committed credit facilities nor any acceleration in the
outstanding long-term debt (provided that the USDdenominated bonds issued by the Company in March
2008 and 2012 contain a ‘Change of Control Triggering
Event’ and the EUR-denominated bonds contain a
‘Change of Control Put Event’). A description of Philips’
credit facilities can be found in Debt, starting on page
151.
Philips Group
Credit rating summary
2018
long-term
Fitch
Moody's
Standard & Poor's

shortterm

A-

outlook
Stable

Baa1

P-2

Stable

BBB+

A-2

Stable

Philips pools cash from subsidiaries to the extent legally
and economically feasible. Cash not pooled remains
available for local operational needs or general
purposes. The company faces cross-border foreign
exchange controls and/or other legal restrictions in a
few countries which could limit its ability to make these
balances available on short notice for general use by
the group.

million (including tax and service charges). This was
mainly offset by net results of EUR 1,870 million and the
sale of Signify shares of EUR 327 million.
Share capital structure
The number of outstanding common shares of Royal
Philips at December 31, 2018 was 914 million. At the end
of 2018, the Company held 12.0 million shares in
treasury. Of these shares, 7.9 million shares were held in
treasury to cover obligations under its long-term
incentive plans. After the cancellation of 24.2 million
shares in November 2018, a remainder of 4.1 million
shares were held to reduce share capital. In 2016,
Philips purchased call options on Philips shares to
hedge options granted to employees up to 2013. As of
December 31, 2018, Philips held 3.8 million such options.
In order to further cover obligations under its long-term
incentive plans, as well as to reduce its share capital,
Philips also entered into several forward contracts in
2017 and 2018. As of December 31, 2018, the
outstanding forward contracts related to 28.6 million
shares.

Philips believes its current liquidity and direct access to
capital markets is sufficient to meet its present financing
needs.

*)

Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and
reconciliation of the most directly comparable IFRS
measure, refer to Reconciliation of non-IFRS information,
starting on page 90.

4.1.9 Shareholders’ equity
Shareholders’ equity increased by EUR 89 million in
2018 to EUR 12,088 million at December 31, 2018. The
increase was mainly due to net results of EUR 1,097
million and the positive impact of currency translation
differences of EUR 347 million. This was mainly offset by
share repurchases made in the open market of EUR 514
million, dividend payments to shareholders of
Koninklijke Philips N.V. of EUR 400 million (including tax
and service charges), a fair value decline of financial
assets of EUR 147 million, and the impact of the
accounting for share-based compensation plans,
including the effect of related hedging transactions
through forward contracts and share call options (in
aggregate EUR 191 million).
Shareholders’ equity decreased by EUR 547 million in
2017 to EUR 11,999 million at December 31, 2017. The
decrease was mainly due to the negative impact of
currency translation differences of EUR 984 million,
share repurchases made in the open market over the
course of the year, the purchase of forward contracts of
EUR 1,079 million (for capital reduction purposes and
hedging of commitments under share-based
compensation plans), and dividend payments to
shareholders of Koninklijke Philips N.V. of EUR 384

Annual Report 2018

31

Financial performance 4.1.9

The number of outstanding common shares of Royal
Philips at December 31, 2017 was 926 million. At the end
of 2017, the Company held 14.7 million shares in
treasury. Of these shares, 10.1 million shares were held
in treasury to cover obligations under its long-term
incentive plans. The remaining 4.6 million shares were
held to reduce share capital. As of December 31, 2017,
Philips held 6.2 million call options as a hedge of
options granted to employees. As of December 31, 2017,
the outstanding forward contracts related to 31.8. million
shares.

Share repurchase methods for long-term incentive
plans and capital reduction purposes
During 2018, Royal Philips acquired shares for long-term
incentive plans and capital reduction purposes via three
different methods: (i) share buy-back repurchases in the
open market via an intermediary, (ii) repurchase of
shares via forward contracts for future delivery of
shares, (iii) the unwinding of call options on own shares.
In 2018, Royal Philips also used methods (i) and (ii) to
acquire shares for capital reduction purposes.
The open market transactions via an intermediary allow
for buybacks during both open and closed periods.

Philips Group
Impact of share repurchase on share count in thousands of shares as of December 31
2014-2018
Shares issued
Shares in treasury

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

934,820

931,131

929,645

940,909

926,196

20,431

14,027

7,208

14,717

12,011

Shares outstanding

914,389

917,104

922,437

926,192

914,184

Shares repurchased

28,538

20,296

25,193

19,842

31,994

Shares cancelled

21,838

21,361

18,830

Philips Group
Total number of shares repurchased in thousands of shares unless otherwise stated
2018
share repurchases
related to shares
acquired for capital
reduction
January 2018

24,247

average price
paid per share
in EUR

shares acquired
for LTI's

average price
paid per share
in EUR

62

32.64

February 2018

7,183

30.83

373

30.31

24.18

March 2018

4,103

31.27

750

27.03

April 2018

512

31.54

May 2018

516

35.23

June 2018

395

36.18

July 2018

201

37.38

August 2018

198

38.29

131

37.99

September 2018
October 2018

4,140

34.02

3,172

31.89

November 2018

4,140

34.02

1,978

33.70

8,226

32.59

December 2018
Total

4,140

34.02

23,768

32.58

of which

32

purchased in the open market

11,348

5,008

acquired through exercise of call options/settlement
of forward contracts

12,420

3,218

Annual Report 2018

Financial performance 4.1.10

4.1.10 Cash obligations
Contractual cash obligations
The table below presents a summary of the Group’s fixed contractual cash obligations and commitments at December 31,
2018. These amounts are an estimate of future payments, which could change as a result of various factors such as a
change in interest rates, contractual provisions, as well as changes in our business strategy and needs. Therefore, the
actual payments made in future periods may differ from those presented in the table below:
Philips Group
Contractual cash obligations 1) 2) in millions of EUR
2018
Payments due by period
total

less than 1 year

1-3 years

3-5 years

after 5 years

4,358

1,136

194

501

2,527

Finance lease obligations

357

100

152

53

52

Short-term debt

164

164
204

Long-term debt 3)

Operating leases

756

176

227

148

Derivative liabilities

296

179

2

114

1,632

108

207

200

1,117

666

233

352

52

30

2,303

2,303

10,532

4,399

1,134

1,069

3,929

Interest on debt
Purchase obligations 4)
Trade and other payables
Contractual cash obligations
1)

Amounts in this table are undiscounted

2)
This table excludes post-employment benefit plan contribution commitments and income tax liabilities in respect of tax risks because it is not
possible to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the actual period of cash settlement
3)

Long-term debt includes short-term portion of long-term debt and excludes finance lease obligations

4)

Purchase obligations are agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding for the Group. They specify all
significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, fixed, minimum or variable price provisions and the approximate timing
of the transaction. They do not include open purchase orders or other commitments which do not specify all significant terms.

IFRS 16, Leases, is effective for the financial year
commencing January 1, 2019. Upon adoption, the
company expects to recognize a lease liability at the
present value of its remaining operating lease
commitments (excluding low-value leases). Refer to
Significant accounting policies, starting on page 112.

The company had EUR 114 million restructuring-related
provisions by the end of 2018, of which EUR 68 million
is expected to result in cash outflows in 2019. Refer to
Provisions, starting on page 153 for details of
restructuring provisions.

In January 2018, it was announced that the North
American headquarters will move from Andover to
Cambridge. Philips has entered into a new lease
commitment commencing in 2020 with a term of 15
years and resulting in an off-balance sheet commitment
of EUR 218 million.

A proposal will be submitted to the Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on May 9, 2019, to
declare a dividend of EUR 0.85 per common share (an
increase of 6%), in cash or shares at the option of the
shareholder (up to EUR 777 million if all shareholders
would elect cash), against the net income for 2018.
Further details will be given in the agenda for the 2019
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.

Certain Philips suppliers factor their trade receivables
from Philips with third parties through supplier finance
arrangements. At December 31, 2018 approximately
EUR 275 million of the Philips accounts payable were
known to have been sold onward under such
arrangements whereby Philips confirms invoices. Philips
continues to recognize these liabilities as trade
payables and will settle the liabilities in line with the
original payment terms of the related invoices.

On January 29, 2019, Philips announced a new share
buyback program for an amount of up to EUR 1.5 billion,
which is expected to start in the first quarter of 2019 and
to be completed within two years. As the program will
be initiated for capital reduction purposes, Philips
intends to cancel all of the shares acquired under the
program.

Other cash commitments
The Company and its subsidiaries sponsor postemployment benefit plans in many countries in
accordance with legal requirements, customs and the
local situation in the countries involved. For a discussion
of the plans and expected cash outflows, please refer to
Post-employment benefits, starting on page 156.

Guarantees
Philips’ policy is to provide guarantees and other letters
of support only in writing. Philips does not provide other
forms of support. The total fair value of guarantees
recognized on the balance sheet amounts to EUR nil
million for both 2017 and 2018. Remaining off-balancesheet business and credit-related guarantees provided
on behalf of third parties and associates decreased by
EUR 3 million during 2018 to EUR 40 million (December
31, 2017: EUR 44 million).

Annual Report 2018

33

Financial performance 4.1.11

4.1.11 Sell-down Signify shares (former Philips
Lighting)
In September 2014, Philips announced its plan to
sharpen its strategic focus by establishing two standalone companies focused on the HealthTech and
Lighting opportunities respectively. A stand-alone
structure was established for lighting activities within
the Philips Group, effective February 1, 2016. On May 27,
2016, Philips Lighting (renamed Signify in 2018) was
listed and started trading on Euronext in Amsterdam
under the symbol ‘LIGHT’. Following the listing of
Signify, Philips retained a 71.23% stake.
In 2017, Philips successfully completed three
accelerated bookbuild offerings to institutional investors
of 65.35 million shares in Signify, reducing Philips’ stake
in the issued share capital to 29.01% by the end of 2017.
The first two transactions in February and April 2017
involved 48.25 million shares. In April 2017, Philips
concluded that a ''loss of control'' from an accounting
perspective could occur due to the further sell down of
the remaining shares within one year. Accordingly, from
that date the lighting activities (substantially
representing Signify shares) were presented as a
discontinued operation.
In November 2017, by selling another 17.1 million shares,
Philips lost control, resulting in the deconsolidation of
Signify.
The position of 29.01% as of December 31, 2017 was a
temporary position, which fitted in Philips' overall single
coordinated plan to sell Signify in its entirety.
Consequently, any future results related to the retained
interest – like value adjustments, results upon disposal
and dividends – were reflected in Discontinued
operations. The Signify shares were presented as an
Asset classified as held for sale.
In February 2018, Philips successfully completed a
fourth accelerated bookbuild offering to institutional
investors of 16.22 million shares in Signify. During that

34

Annual Report 2018

year, Philips sold Signify shares in the open market,
reducing its shareholding to 16.5% of Signify's issued
share capital as of December 31, 2018. As from that
date, Philips no longer had board representation in the
Supervisory Board of Signify. The remaining shares were
reclassified to Other current financial assets, with fair
value changes recognized through Other
comprehensive income.

4.1.12 Procurement
For the third year in a row, Philips faced adverse market
conditions in 2018, due to industry cycles and raw
material price trends. Procurement performance was
therefore, more than before, dependent on product
concept re-engineering and sourcing strategies.
The combination of price erosion, market growth and
inflationary pressures impacted Philips suppliers across
the board as the anticipated risk of market headwinds
became visible. Additionally, there was tightness in the
electronic component markets. The trade tensions and
US import tariffs implemented from April 2018 resulted
in further direct and indirect financial headwinds. From
the third quarter the impact of weaker global growth,
exacerbated by a slowdown in China and uncertainty
over the impact of Brexit, resulted in returned volatility
in commodity and raw materials pricing.
Overcoming these headwinds, Philips delivered on its
2018 procurement performance ambition by optimizing
design and costs via various programs, including DfX
conventions and Total Cost of Ownership (TCO)
programs.

4.1.13 Analysis of 2017 compared to 2016
The analysis of the 2017 financial results compared to
2016, and the discussion of the critical accounting
policies, have not been included in this Annual Report.
These sections are included in Philips’ Form 20-F for
the financial year 2018, which will be filed electronically
with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.

Financial performance 4.2

4.2 Investor information
4.2.1 Dividend
Dividend policy
Philips’ dividend policy is aimed at dividend stability
and a pay-out ratio of 40% to 50% of adjusted income
from continuing operations attributable to
shareholders*).
For 2018, the key exclusions to arrive at the adjusted
income from continuing operations attributable to
shareholders*) are described in Net income, Income
from operations (EBIT) and Adjusted EBITA*) of financial
performance , starting on page 22.
Proposed distribution
A proposal will be submitted to the Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on May 9, 2019, to
declare a distribution of EUR 0.85 per common share, in
cash or shares at the option of the shareholder (up to
EUR 777 million if all shareholders would elect cash),
against the net income for 2018.
If the above dividend proposal is adopted, the shares
will be traded ex-dividend as of May 13, 2019 at the
New York Stock Exchange and Euronext Amsterdam. In
compliance with the listing requirements of the New
York Stock Exchange and the stock market of Euronext
Amsterdam, the dividend record date will be May 14,
2019.
Shareholders will be given the opportunity to make
their choice between cash and shares between May 15,
2019 and June 7, 2019. If no choice is made during this
election period the dividend will be paid in cash. On
June 7, 2019 after close of trading, the number of share
dividend rights entitled to one new common share will
be determined based on the volume-weighted average
price of all traded common shares of Koninklijke Philips
N.V. at Euronext Amsterdam on June 5, 6 and 7, 2019.
The Company will calculate the number of share
dividend rights entitled to one new common share (the
ratio), such that the gross dividend in shares will be
approximately equal to the gross dividend in cash. The
ratio and the number of shares to be issued will be
announced on June 12, 2019. Payment of the dividend
and delivery of new common shares, with settlement of
fractions in cash, if required, will take place from June
13, 2019. The distribution of dividend in cash to holders
of New York Registry shares will be made in USD at the
USD/EUR rate as per WM/ Reuters FX Benchmark 2 PM
CET fixing of June 11, 2019.

ex-dividend
date

record date

payment
date

Euronext
Amsterdam

May 13, 2019

May 14, 2019

June 13, 2019

New York
Stock
Exchange

May 13, 2019

May 14, 2019

June 13 2019

Further details will be given in the agenda for the 2019
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. All dates
mentioned remain provisional until then.
Dividend in cash is in principle subject to 15% Dutch
dividend withholding tax, which will be deducted from
the dividend in cash paid to the shareholders. Dividend
in shares paid out of net income and retained earnings
is subject to 15% dividend withholding tax, but only in
respect of the par value of the shares (EUR 0.20 per
share). Shareholders are advised to consult their tax
advisor on the applicable situation with respect to taxes
on the dividend received.
In 2018, Philips settled a dividend of EUR 0.80 per
common share, representing a total value of EUR 738
million including costs. Shareholders could elect for a
cash dividend or a share dividend. Approximately 46%
of the shareholders elected for a share dividend,
resulting in the issuance of 9,533,223 new common
shares, leading to a 1.0% dilution. The dilution caused
by the newly issued dividend shares was more than
offset by the cancellation of 24,246,711 shares in
November 2018. The cash dividend involved an amount
of EUR 400 million (including costs).
Dividends and distributions per common share
The following table sets forth in euros the gross
dividends on the common shares in the fiscal years
indicated (from prior-year profit distribution) and such
amounts as converted into US dollars and paid to
holders of shares of the New York Registry:
Philips Group
Gross dividends on the common shares
2014 - 2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

in EUR

0.80

0.80

0.80

0.80

0.80

in USD

1.09

0.89

0.90

0.90

0.94

*)

Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and
reconciliation of the most directly comparable IFRS
measure, refer to Reconciliation of non-IFRS information,
starting on page 90.

Annual Report 2018

35

Financial performance 4.2.2

4.2.2 Share information
Philips Group
Share information at year-end 2018
Share listings

Euronext Amsterdam, New York Stock Exchange

Ticker code

PHIA, PHG

No. of shares issued

926 million

No. of shares issued and outstanding

914 million

Market capitalization

EUR 28.3 billion

Industry classification
MSCI: Health Care Equipment

35101010

ICB: Medical Equipment

4535
AEX, NYSE, DJSI, STOXX Europe 600 Healthcare, MSCI Europe Health
Care

Members of indices

The following information is based on a shareholder
base analysis carried out for investor relations purposes
by an independent provider in December 2018.
Philips Group
Shareholders by region at year-end 2018 1) in %

44

North America

8

Netherlands

1)

Philips Group
Shareholders by style at year-end 2018 1) in %

27

Growth
17

Index
14

Value

14

GARP
4

13

Retail
Other

1)

36

11

Approximate split based on shareholders identified.

Annual Report 2018

May 9, 2019

Quarterly reports
April 29, 2019
July 22, 2019

Third quarter results 2019

October 28, 2019

Fourth quarter results 2019

January 28, 2020

2019 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
The Agenda and the explanatory notes to the Agenda
for the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on May
9, 2019, will be published on the company’s website.

4

Approximate split based on shareholders identified.

Hedge Fund

April 11, 2019

Annual General Meeting of
Shareholders

19

Rest of Europe
Other

Record date Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders

Second quarter results 2019

12

UK

Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting of
Shareholders

First quarter results 2019

13

France

4.2.3 Financial calendar

For the 2019 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, a
record date of April 11, 2019 will apply. Those persons
who, on that date, hold shares in the Company, and are
registered as such in one of the registers designated by
the Board of Management for the Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders, will be entitled to participate
in, and vote at, the meeting.

Financial performance 4.2.4

4.2.4 Investor contact
Shareholder services

Deutsche Bank Global Direct Investor Services

Holders of shares listed on Euronext Amsterdam
Non-US shareholders and other non-US interested
parties can make inquiries about the Annual Report
2018 to:

Telephone (toll-free US): +1-866-706-8374
Telephone (outside of US): +1-718-921-8137
Monday through Friday 8:00 AM EST through 8:00 PM
EST

Royal Philips
Annual Report Office
Philips Center, HBT 12
P.O. Box 77900
1070 MX Amsterdam, The Netherlands
E-mail: annual.report@philips.com

Website www.astfinancial.com
E-mail: dbemails@astfinancial.com

Communications concerning share transfers, lost
certificates, dividends and change of address should be
directed to:
ABN AMRO Bank N.V.
Department Equity Capital Markets/Corporate Broking
HQ7050
Gustav Mahlerlaan 10, 1082 PP Amsterdam
The Netherlands
Telephone: +31-20-34 42000
E-mail: corporate.broking@nl.abnamro.com
Holders of New York Registry shares
Holders of New York Registry shares and other
interested parties in the US can make inquiries about
the Annual Report 2018 to:
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas
C/O AST
6201 15th Avenue Brooklyn, NY 11219
Telephone (toll-free US): +1-866-706-8374
Telephone (outside of US): +1-718-921-8137
Website: www.astfinancial.com
E-mail: dbemails@astfinancial.com
Communications concerning share transfers, lost
certificates, dividends and change of address should be
directed to Deutsche Bank The Annual Report on Form
20-F is filed electronically with the US Securities and
Exchange Commission.
International direct investment program
Philips offers a Dividend Reinvestment and Direct Stock
Purchase Plan designed for the US market. This
program provides existing shareholders and interested
investors with an economical and convenient way to
purchase and sell Philips New York Registry shares
(listed at the New York Stock Exchange) and to reinvest
cash dividends. Deutsche Bank (the registrar of Philips
NY Registry shares) has been authorized to implement
and administer both plans for registered shareholders
of and new investors in Philips NY Registry shares.
Philips does not administer or sponsor the Program and
assumes no obligation or liability for the operation of
the plan. For further information on this program and for
enrollment forms, contact:

or write to:
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas
IC/O AST
6201 15th Avenue Brooklyn, NY 11219
Analysts’ coverage
Philips is covered by approximately 20 analysts who
frequently issue reports on the company. For a list of
our current analysts, please refer to: www.philips.com/
a-w/about/investor/stock-info/analyst-coverage.html
How to reach us
The registered office of Royal Philips is
High Tech Campus 5
5656 AE Eindhoven, The Netherlands
Switch board, telephone: +31-40-27 91111
Investor Relations contact
Royal Philips
Philips Center
P.O. Box 77900
1070 MX Amsterdam, The Netherlands
Telephone: +31-20-59 77222
Website: www.philips.com/investor
E-mail: investor.relations@philips.com
Pim Preesman
Head of Investor Relations
Telephone: +31-20-59 77222
Ksenija Gonciarenko
Investor Relations Manager
Telephone: +31-20-59 77055
Sustainability contact
Philips Group Sustainability
High Tech Campus 5
5656 AE Eindhoven, The Netherlands
Telephone: +31-40-27 83651
Website: www.philips.com/sustainability
E-mail: philips.sustainability@philips.com
Group Press Office contact
Royal Philips
Philips Center, HBT 19
Amstelplein 2
1096 BC Amsterdam, The Netherlands
E-mail: group.communications@philips.com
For media contacts please refer to:
www.philips.com/a-w/about/news/contacts.html

Annual Report 2018

37

Societal impact 5

5 Societal impact
We are a purpose-driven company, aiming to improve
the lives of 3 billion people annually by 2025. Our
people draw inspiration from the societal impact we
achieve through our products and solutions, on both
the social and environmental dimensions. In the Annual
Report 2017 and 2018 we quantified the environmental
impact that we have as a company in Environmental
performance, starting on page 43.
In 2018 we applied the True Value methodology to start
quantifying our social impact. This includes the social
impact in our supply chain, training of our staff, and
taxes we pay. We included these impacts in How we
create value, starting on page 8. We have also started to
quantify the most complex part, the social impact we
have through our products and solutions. We will
continue to calculate the impact of our products and
solutions in collaboration with knowledge partners and
investors.

5.1 Social performance
Our people strategy supports a constantly evolving
workforce, capable of delivering strong business
performance and executing our strategy. As such we
focus on our Workforce of the Future, and our deep
commitment to Inclusion & Diversity across our
workforce, supported by our culture.

5.1.1 Improving people’s lives
At Philips, we strive to make the world healthier and
more sustainable through innovation. In 2012, we set
ourselves the goal to improve the lives of 3 billion
people a year by 2025.
To guide our efforts and measure our progress, we take
a two-dimensional approach – social and ecological –
to improving people’s lives. Products or solutions from
our portfolio that directly support the curative or
preventive side of people’s health determine the
contribution to the social dimension. This is also our
contribution to UN Sustainable Development Goal 3 (“to
ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at
all ages”). As healthy ecosystems are also needed for

38

Annual Report 2018

people to live a healthy life, the contribution to the
ecological dimension is determined by means of our
steadily growing Green Products and Solutions
portfolio, such as the energy-efficient products in our
Personal Health businesses. This is our contribution to
Sustainable Development Goal 12 (“to ensure
sustainable consumption and production patterns”).
Finally, our program to become carbon-neutral in our
operations by 2020 contributes to SDG 13 ("take urgent
action to combat climate change and its impacts").
Through Philips products and solutions that support
people’s health and well-being (i.e. excluding brand
licensee Signify) we improved the lives of 1.43 billion
people in 2018 (2017: 1.37 billion), driven by Diagnosis &
Treatment businesses (+9%) and Personal Health
businesses (+5%). Our Green Products and Solutions
(excluding Signify) that support a healthy ecosystem
contributed 995 million lives. After the elimination of
double counts – people touched multiple times – we
arrived at 1.54 billion lives. This is an increase of around
45 million compared to 2017, driven by all segments,
mainly in China, the ASEAN countries, the Middle East &
Turkey, and Central & Eastern Europe. Including Signify,
we improved the lives of 2.24 billion people in 2018.
In 2014, Philips pledged to support the United Nation’s
Every Woman Every Child initiative, committing to
improve the lives of at least 100 million women and
children in Africa and South East Asia by 2025. At the
United Nations General Assembly week in September
2017, Philips made an extended commitment to
improve the lives of 300 million people in underserved
healthcare communities by 2025. Philips thereby
recognized the often critical needs of women and
children in many communities, but also the added
burden arising from the increase in non-communicable
diseases (NCDs) in communities already struggling
without adequate access to healthcare. To monitor our
progress on the extended commitment, we use the
same Lives Improved methodology, and in 2018 we
improved the lives of 175 million people in underserved
markets with our health and well-being solutions (an
increase of 22 million compared to 2017).

Societal impact 5.1.2

Lives Improved per market
The following table shows the Lives Improved metric per market.
Philips Group
Lives improved per market

Market

Lives Improved (million) 1)

Population (million) 2)

Africa

Saturation rate (as % of
population)

GDP (USD million) 3)

53

1,244

4%

2,334

255

972

26%

6,591

Benelux

29

29

99%

1,515

Central & Eastern Europe

101

167

61%

1,850

Germany, Austria &
Switzerland

94

100

94%

5,203

France

57

66

87%

2,827

Greater China

511

1,429

36%

15,057

ASEAN & Pacific

Iberia

44

57

78%

1,680

Indian Subcontinent

221

1,551

14%

3,100

Italy, Israel & Greece

55

82

67%

2,711

Japan

41

126

33%

5,071

178

640

28%

5,521

111

366

30%

3,245

Latin America
Middle East & Turkey
Nordics

26

27

96%

1,660

349

365

96%

22,247

Russia & Central Asia

63

246

25%

2,007

UK & Ireland

51

72

71%

3,191

North America

1)

Source: Philips, double counts eliminated; includes Signify

2)

Source: The World Bank, CIA Factbook & Wikipedia

3)

Source: IMF, CIA, Factbook & Wikipedia

Philips Group
Lives improved in billions

5.1.2 Workforce of the Future
The challenges of the future call for a networked
organization in which cross-functional teams actively
draw on resources across the organization and across
the world, to unite in order to achieve Philips’ overall
objectives. Our Workforce of the Future program
represents our commitment to meet the challenge of
addressing our customers’ unmet needs and deliver the
full benefits of data-enabled connected care by
attracting, developing and retaining a workforce that will
deliver the strategic capabilities we need to win.

By applying Strategic Workforce Planning, in close
alignment with the strategic planning of our businesses,
we identify and develop the employee capabilities
needed to realize our ambitions as a health technology
company. In 2018 we implemented initiatives,
company-wide, that boosted the percentage of top
performers in our most strategic positions to 56%, up
from 45% in 2018. A key driver for this was our focus on
succession planning.
We also addressed the issue of the expanding
workforce and our ability to tap into the ‘gig economy’
and other less traditional work constructs. Building on
our 2017 initiatives to better recognize the significant
contribution that contingent workers make to our
business success, in 2018 we introduced Total
Workforce Demand Management. This Total Workforce
strategy considers all sources of skills and capabilities
we require in the Workforce of the Future, as well as
location-related talent availability factors and labor
market trends. To be ready for the future we devoted
additional attention to our campus, graduate and earlycareer hiring focus in 2018, which resulted in a twofold
increase in the number of campus hires compared with
2017.
More information on training and learning programs can
be found in People development, starting on page 202.
Our focus on the Workforce of the Future will continue
in 2019, with further emphasis on strategic capabilities,
the expanding workforce and early-career hires.

Annual Report 2018

39

Societal impact 5.1.3

5.1.3 Inclusion & Diversity
In order to understand and meet customers’ and
patients’ needs in a complex and continually changing
environment, our workforce should reflect the society in
which we operate, our customers, and the markets we
serve. We believe that an inclusive culture allows our
120-plus nationalities to bring a rich diversity of
capabilities, opinions and perspectives to our decisionmaking processes, thus driving innovation, enabling
faster, targeted responses to market changes, and
supporting sustainable improvements in business
performance.
In 2017 we renewed our approach to Inclusion &
Diversity. We set a goal of 25% gender diversity in senior
leadership positions (a subset of Management and
Executive positions) by the end of 2020 (compared with
19% at the end of 2017). In 2018 we partnered with
leading Inclusion & Diversity training providers to
develop and start rolling out unconscious bias and
inclusion trainings. We continued to strengthen our data
analytics around Inclusion & Diversity to enable a factbased approach to achieving our goals. In 2019 we will
continue with these efforts to ensure that all of our
leaders are trained to understand unconscious bias and
are able to engage their teams in addressing this topic.
With regard to appointment and promotion
opportunities, we transparently share open positions
and endeavor to attract candidates from a diverse range
of backgrounds and to install diverse interview panels
for recruitment for all leadership positions. We
enhanced our existing Inclusion & Diversity leadership
training offerings and increased the number of Senior
Women’s Leadership Programs for the second
consecutive year. In addition, we scaled up our other
Women’s Programs and embedded the importance of
inclusion in other (Leadership) Programs.
Philips Group
Gender diversity in %
2016 - 2018

59 58

52
69 69 68

41 42

'16 '17 '18

40

62
66 65

Male

38
34 35

Female

82 82 81

48
31 31 32

Staff

77 77 75

'16 '17 '18

23 23 25

'16 '17 '18

18 18 19

'16 '17 '18

Professionals Management Executives

Annual Report 2018

'16 '17 '18
Total

Overall gender diversity increased from 36% in 2017 to
38% in 2018. Gender diversity among Executives
increased from 18% to 19% female executives. Measured
against our 2020 goal of 25% gender diversity in
Leadership positions, this figure rose from 19% in 2017 to
21% in 2018.

5.1.4 Our culture
As we continue our transformation into a focused
leader in health technology – shifting from products to
solutions and building long-term relationships with our
customers – we are fostering a culture within Philips
that will help us achieve operational excellence and
extend our solutions capability to address our
customers’ unmet needs.
To this end, all Philips employees are expected to
commit to living our renewed behaviors – Customers
first, Quality and integrity always, Team up to win, Take
ownership to deliver fast, and Eager to improve and
inspire – every step of the way.
Putting our customers first must be at the heart of
everything we do. Only by engaging deeply with our
customers can we understand their unmet needs and
deliver superior value. We also need to be conscious, at
all times, of the high-stakes environment in which we
now operate. This environment demands that we apply
the highest quality and integrity standards – always. To
deliver superior value to our customers and ensure
quality and integrity, we need to improve how we team
up and leverage the skills and expertise right across
Philips. At the same time, we all need to take personal
ownership, enabling us to move with speed and deliver
what we promise, on time. And by applying operational
excellence and Lean ways of working, we will keep
improving and inspiring each other through the work we
do.
We staff our positions based on behavior, potential and
capabilities. In 2018 we filled 77% of our Director-level
and more senior positions from within the company. For
these internal hires, we ensure our candidates are high
performers with strong potential. In 2018, 86% of all
internal promotions to Director level and more senior
positions were realized by appointing top performers.
We supplement this internal growth with targeted
external hiring, bringing in employees with the
behaviors and capabilities we require for our Workforce
of the Future.

Societal impact 5.1.5

5.1.5 Employee engagement
High employee engagement is crucial to the success of
our strategy. Our employee survey consistently reports
high levels of employee engagement that exceed the
high-performance norm of 71%, and our average
engagement score for 2018 was 74%. Despite a small
decrease in engagement from 2017 to 2018 we remain
above the high-performance norm.
Philips Group
Employee Engagement index in %
2016 - 2018
10

16

8
16

9

17

Unfavorable
Neutral

The total number of Philips Group employees
(continuing operations) was 77,400 at the end of 2018,
compared to 73,951 at the end of 2017, an increase of
3,449 FTE.
Growth of our workforce in the Function R&D was the
strongest driver of the increase in FTE. Together with
Quality & Regulatory, Manufacturing and Sales these
four functions accounted for over 70% of the FTE
increase.
The increase in FTE in the segment Other with 2,956
FTE reflects, among other things, the increase in
Manufacturing employees, the shift of supporting roles
to a Global Business Services organization, and the
expansion of the Philips Innovation Center in Bangalore.
Philips Group
Employees per segment in FTEs at year-end
2016 - 2018

74

76

74

Favorable

Diagnosis & Treatment
Connected Care & Health
Informatics
Personal Health
Other

'16

'17

'18

Our quarterly employee survey help keep our finger on
the pulse of employee sentiment toward the company.
We listen to employees’ ideas for improvement, show
employees that their feedback is valued, and work to
ensure that every person in our company has a role to
play in creating lasting value for our customers,
shareholders, and other stakeholders. In 2018 we
expanded our employee listening initiatives by running
regional and cross-functional dialogs. Through these
dialogs we were able to gain a better understanding of
the challenges that may be hindering our workforce, so
that we can collaboratively identify and formulate
solutions.
At Philips, we believe we perform at our best when we
look after ourselves and each other. In 2018, we
continued to develop our Health & Wellbeing programs,
which are designed to engage our employees and
empower them to adopt a healthier lifestyle and
achieve a better work/life integration. Through the
ongoing engagement of a network of Health &
Wellbeing ambassadors, we also leveraged the energy
and experience of our employees to drive local
wellbeing initiatives in our markets. These included onsite exercise and fitness clubs, Mindfulness classes and
Energy Management workshops.

5.1.6 Employment
In 2018, we continued to build out our health
technology portfolio with targeted acquisitions in key
areas including image-guided therapy, healthcare
informatics, population health management, monitoring
and analytics, and sleep and respiratory care, growing
our employee base by a further 331 FTE.

2016

2017

2018

23,791

25,757

27,381

11,033

10,949

10,517

22,530

23,170

22,471

13,614

14,075

17,031

Continuing operations

70,968

73,951

77,400

Discontinued operations

43,764

Philips Group

114,731

73,951

77,400

Philips Group
Employment in FTEs
2016 - 2018
Balance as of January 1

2016

2017

2018

112,959

114,731

73,951

Consolidation changes:
Acquisitions

163

1,812

331

Divestments

(571)

(332)

(107)

753

(43,763)

Changes in Discontinued
operations
Other changes
Balance as of December 31

1,427

1,502

3,225

114,731

73,951

77,400

Geographic footprint
Approximately 61% (2017: 63%) of the Philips workforce
is located in mature geographies and 39% (2017: 37%) in
growth geographies. In 2018, the number of employees
in mature geographies increased by 1,384. The number
of employees in growth geographies increased by
2,065.
Philips Group
Employees per geographic cluster in FTEs at year-end
2016 - 2018
2016

2017

2018

Western Europe

20,657

21,055

21,399

North America

19,828

20,937

21,703

3,695

3,962

4,236

Mature geographies

44,180

45,954

47,338

Growth geographies

26,788

27,997

30,062

Continuing operations

70,968

73,951

77,400

Discontinued operations

43,764

Philips Group

114,731

73,951

77,400

Other mature geographies

Annual Report 2018

41

Societal impact 5.1.7

Employee turnover
In 2018, employee turnover amounted to 14.2%, of
which 8.6% was voluntary, compared to 13.6% (8.2%
voluntary) in 2017. The slightly higher turnover in 2018
reflects the high demand for talent in the current
economic circumstances. External benchmarks show
that we remain well below employee turnover versus
similar-sized companies and are reasonably successful
in the retention of our employees.
With our focus on increasing gender diversity in
leadership positions, we have been able to reduce
voluntary female executive turnover from 12.9% in 2017
to 8.8% in 2018.
Philips Group
Employee turnover in %
2018

Staff

Professionals

Management

Executives

Female

15.6

14.4

11.4

19.1

Total

Male

16.8

12.2

12.1

14.5

14.9
13.8

Philips Group

16.2

12.9

11.9

15.4

14.2

Staff

Professionals

Management

Executives

Total

8.8

9.6

6.8

8.8

9.1

10.4

7.4

6.0

3.5

8.3

9.7

8.1

6.2

4.5

8.6

Philips Group
Voluntary turnover in %
2018

Female
Male
Philips Group

5.1.7 Human rights
We believe that businesses have the responsibility to
respect human rights and the ability to contribute to
positive human rights impacts. We have taken initiatives
to ensure that human rights are upheld across our own
operations and value chain.
In 2018, we published our Human Rights Policy,
reaffirming our commitment to support and respect
human rights as set out in the International Bill of
Human Rights and the International Labor
Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles
and Rights at Work. In accordance with our policy, we
initiated our first country-specific Human Rights Impact
Assessment, and deepened our human rights due
diligence process by engaging with internal and
external stakeholders to identify the human rights areas
of severe impact and most vulnerable groups. The result
is presented in our first Human Rights Report, which
also contains more detailed information regarding our
progress.

5.1.8 General Business Principles
The Philips General Business Principles (GBP)
incorporate and represent the fundamental principles
by which all Philips businesses and employees around
the globe must abide. They set the minimum standard
for business conduct, both for individual employees and
for the company and our subsidiaries. Our GBP also
serve as a reference for the business conduct we expect
from our business partners and suppliers.

42

Annual Report 2018

Translations of the GBP text are available in 32
languages, allowing almost every employee to read the
GBP in their native language. Detailed underlying
policies, manuals, training, and tools are in place to give
employees practical guidance on how to apply and
uphold the GBP in their daily work environments.
Details can be found at: www.philips.com/gbp.
In 2018, a total of 438 concerns were reported via the
Philips Ethics Line and through our network of GBP
Compliance Officers. The previous reporting period
(2017) saw a total of 382 concerns, resulting in an
increase of 14% in the number of reports.
This is a continuation of the upward trend reported
since 2014, the year in which Philips updated its General
Business Principles and deployed a strengthened global
communication campaign. We believe this trend
remains in line with our multi-year efforts to encourage
our employees to speak up, in combination with a
growing workforce.
More information on the Philips GBP can be found in
Risk management, starting on page 50. The results of
the monitoring measures in place are given in General
Business Principles, starting on page 204

5.1.9 Health and Safety
At Philips, we strive for an injury-free and illness-free
work environment. As of 2016, the Total Recordable
Cases (TRC) rate is defined as a Key Performance
Indicator (KPI). A TRC is a case where an injured
employee is unable to work for one or more days, has
medical treatment, or sustains an industrial illness. We
set yearly TRC targets for the company, Business
Groups and industrial sites.
We recorded 198 TRCs in 2018, a 15% improvement
compared to 234 in 2017. While our workforce grew
further in 2018, the TRC rate decreased from 0.36 per
hundred FTEs in 2017 to 0.28 in 2018.
In 2018 we recorded 91 Lost Workday Injury Cases
(LWIC). These are occupational injury cases where an
injured person is unable to work for one or more days
after the injury. This represents a 19% decrease
compared with 113 in 2017. The LWIC rate decreased to
0.13 per 100 FTEs in 2018, compared with 0.17 in 2017.
The number of Lost Workdays caused by injuries
increased by 480 days (12%) to 4,650 days in 2018,
mainly caused by longer recovery periods related to a
limited number of incidents.
For more information on Health and Safety, please refer
to Health and Safety performance, starting on page 205

5.1.10 Working with stakeholders
In organizing ourselves around customers and markets,
we conduct dialogues with our stakeholders in order to
explore common ground for addressing societal
challenges, building partnerships and jointly developing
supporting ecosystems for our innovations around the
world. An overview of stakeholders and topics

Societal impact 5.1.11

discussed is provided in Sustainability statements,
starting on page 196.
For more information on our stakeholder engagement
activities in 2018, please refer to Stakeholder
engagement, starting on page 206.

5.1.11 Supplier sustainability
Philips’ mission to improve people’s lives applies
throughout our value chain. Since 2003 we have
dedicated supplier sustainability programs as part of
our sustainability strategy. We have a direct business
relationship with approximately 4,900 product and
component suppliers and 19,000 service providers. In
many cases the sustainability issues deeper in our
supply chain require us to intervene beyond tier 1 of the
chain.
Supplier sustainability strategy
Managing our large and complex supply chain in a
socially and environmentally responsible way requires a
structured and innovative approach while being
transparent and engaging with a wide variety of
stakeholders. Insights gained through our regular
stakeholder engagement process are used as an input
to manage our supplier sustainability strategy. At
present, our programs focus on compliance with our
policies, improvement of suppliers’ sustainability
performance, responsible sourcing of minerals, and
circular procurement practices.
Please refer to Supplier indicators, starting on page 208
and to the Philips supplier sustainability website for
more details on the Philips supplier sustainability
program.

Environmental impact
Philips has been performing Life-Cycle Assessments
(LCAs) since 1990. These assessments provide insight
into the environmental impacts of our products from
cradle to grave. These insights are used to steer our
EcoDesign efforts and to grow our Green Solutions
portfolio. As a logical next step we have measured our
environmental impact on society at large via a so-called
Environmental Profit & Loss (EP&L) account, which
includes the hidden environmental costs associated
with our activities and products. It supports the direction
of our 'Healthy people, Sustainable planet' program by
providing insights into the main environmental hotspots
and innovation areas to reduce the environmental
impact of our products and solutions.
The EP&L account is based on LCA methodology, in
which the environmental impacts are expressed in
monetary terms using conversion factors developed by
CE Delft. These conversion factors are subject to further
refinement and are expected to change over time. We
used expert opinions and estimates for some parts of
the calculations. The figures reported are Philips’ best
possible estimates. As we gain new insights and retrieve
more and better data, we may enhance the
methodology, use cases and accuracy of results in the
future. For more information we refer to our
methodology report.
An important learning that we derived from the first
EP&L is that, in addition to the conversion factors, also
the definition of the use case scenarios has a significant
impact on the result, especially for consumer products.
It is our aim to look into the feasibility of standardizing
the use cases and calculation of the yearly energy
consumption.

5.2 Environmental performance
In 2016 we launched our new five-year sustainability
program, ‘Healthy people, Sustainable planet’,
addressing both social and environmental challenges
and including associated targets to be achieved by
2020.
Besides our social impact, we have an environmental
impact through our global operations, but even more so
through our products and solutions. This is our
contribution to SDG 12 (“to ensure sustainable
consumption and production patterns”) and to SDG 13
("take urgent action to combat climate change and its
impacts").

The current EP&L account only includes the hidden
environmental costs. It does not yet include the benefits
to society that Philips generates by improving people’s
lives through our products and solutions. We have a
well-established methodology to calculate the number
of lives we positively touch with our products and
solutions. It is our aim to look into valuing these societal
benefits in monetary terms as well and include them in
our future EP&L account. We started to work on the
latter in 2018.

In this Environmental performance section an overview
is given of the most important environmental
parameters of the 'Healthy people, Sustainable planet'
program. Details can be found in the Sustainability
statements, starting on page 196.

Annual Report 2018

43

Societal impact 5.2

Results 2018
In 2018, Philips had an environmental impact (loss) of EUR 7.5 billion, which is a 4% increase compared to the impact
reported in 2017 (EUR 7.2 billion), driven by comparable sales growth*) of 5%. The main environmental impact, 87% of the
total, is related to the usage of our products, which is due to electricity consumption. Particulate matter formation and
climate change are the main environmental impacts, accounting for 43% and 28% respectively of the total impact. The
environmental costs include the environmental impact of the full lifetime of the products that we put on the market in
2018, e.g. 7 years of usage in the case of a vacuum cleaner or 10 years in the case of a medical system. As we grow our
portfolio of Green Products and Solutions, we expect the environmental impact to reduce.
In 2018, we included packaging materials in the EP&L, but this did not have a material impact (EUR 22 million). Of the total
2018 impact, EUR 175 million (2%) is directly caused by Philips’ own operations, mainly driven by outbound logistics.
Compared to EUR 205 million in 2017, this is a 15% reduction, mainly due to the shift to energy from renewable sources in
line with our ambition to become carbon-neutral in our operations by 2020.

The environmental costs have been positively influenced by our EcoDesign efforts to increase the energy efficiency of our
products. Our supply chain currently has an environmental impact of some EUR 792 million, which is 11% of our total
environmental impact. The main contributors are the electronic components, cables and steel used in our products.
Through our Circular Economy and Supplier Sustainability programs we will continue to focus on reducing the
environmental impact caused by the materials we source and apply in our products.
In order to deliver on our carbon neutrality commitment we have set ambitious reduction targets. In 2018, our 2020-2040
targets (including the use phase of our products) have been approved by the Science Based Targets initiative – a
collaboration between the CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project), the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the
World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) aimed at driving ambitious corporate climate
action. The approval confirms that Philips’ long-term targets are in line with the level of decarbonization required to keep
the global temperature increase below 2°C, and we are pleased to be the first health technology company to have
obtained this approval.

*)

44

Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and
reconciliation of the most directly comparable IFRS
measure, refer to Reconciliation of non-IFRS information,
starting on page 90.

Annual Report 2018

Societal impact 5.2.1

5.2.1 Green Innovation
Green Innovation is the Research & Development spend
related to the development of new generations of
Green Products and Solutions and Green Technologies.
Sustainable Innovation is the Research & Development
spend related to the development of new generations
of products and solutions that address the United
Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals 3 (“to ensure
healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages”)
or 12 (“to ensure sustainable consumption and
production patterns”). With regard to Sustainable
Innovation spend, Philips set a target of EUR 7.5 billion
(cumulative) for the period 2016-2020 as part of the
‘Healthy people, Sustainable planet’ program.
In 2018, Philips invested EUR 228 million in Green
Innovation and some EUR 1.4 billion in Sustainable
Innovation.
Philips Group
Green Innovation per segment in millions of EUR
2016-2018

277
10
38

233

228

10

5

Other

33

36

Connected Care &
Health Informatics

101

Diagnosis & Treatment

Personal Health

133
99

96

91

86

'16

'17

'18

Diagnosis & Treatment businesses
Philips develops innovative diagnosis and treatment
solutions that support precision diagnosis and effective,
minimally invasive interventions and therapy, while
respecting the boundaries of natural resources.
Investments in Green Innovation in 2018 amounted to
EUR 101 million, broadly in line with 2017. All Philips
Green Focal Areas are taken into account as we aim to
reduce environmental impact over the total lifecycle.
Energy efficiency is an area of focus, especially for our
large imaging systems such as MRI. Philips also pays
particular attention to enabling upgrading pathways, so
our customers can benefit from enhancements in
workflow, dose management and imaging quality with
the equipment they already own. Our Diagnosis &
Treatment businesses actively support a voluntary
industry initiative to improve the energy efficiency of
medical imaging equipment. Moreover, we are actively
partnering with multiple leading care providers to look
together for innovative ways to reduce the
environmental impact of healthcare, for example by
maximizing energy-efficient use of medical equipment
and optimizing lifecycle value. Additionally, Philips aims
to close the loop on all large medical equipment that

becomes available to us by the end of 2020, and to
extend circular practices to all medical equipment by
2025. To achieve this target, we will actively drive tradeins in markets where de-install, trade-in and reverse
logistics capabilities are in place, and build these
capabilities in countries that do not yet have them.
Connected Care & Health Informatics businesses
Philips’ connected health IT solutions integrate, collect,
combine and deliver quality data for actionable insights
to help improve access to quality care, while respecting
the boundaries of natural resources. It is our belief that
well-designed e-health solutions can reduce the travelrelated carbon footprint of healthcare, increase
efficiency in hospitals, and improve access to care and
outcomes. Investments in Green Innovation in 2018
amounted to EUR 36 million, in line with previous years.
Some large Green Innovation projects will deliver new
green patient monitors and ventilators in 2019, with
lower environmental footprints reflecting all the Philips
Green Focal Areas. Energy efficiency and material
reduction are the main areas of focus.
Personal Health businesses
The continued high level of R&D investments at our
Personal Health businesses is also reflected in the
Green Innovation spend, which amounted to EUR 86
million in 2018, compared with EUR 91 million in 2017.
Green Innovation spend in 2017 included a sizeable
project in Oral Healthcare, resulting in a series of new
Green Products in 2018. The Personal Health businesses
continued their work on improving the energy efficiency
of their products, closing the materials loop (e.g. by
using recycled materials in products and packaging)
and the voluntary phase-out of polyvinyl chloride
(PVC), brominated flame retardants (BFR), Bisphenol A
(BPA) and phthalates from, among others, food contact
products. Mother & Child Care introduced a reusable
sterilization box for soothers, eliminating the need for
separate packaging. In our OneBlade shaver range,
further progress was made in transitioning our
packaging to include recycled materials.
Other
The segment Other invested EUR 5 million in Green
Innovation, spread over projects focused on global
challenges relating to water, air, energy, food, Circular
Economy, and access to affordable healthcare. One
example is the Contrast agent-free project, which is
aimed at enhancing MRI imaging applications in
oncology by eliminating the use of external
Gadolinium-based contrast agent. This is expected to
have large benefits in terms of patient management,
safety, access, healthcare and environmental cost.
Circular Economy
For a sustainable world, the transition from a linear to a
circular economy is essential. A circular economy aims
to decouple economic growth from the use of natural
resources and ecosystems by using these resources
more effectively. It is a driver of innovation in the areas
of material, component and product re-use, as well as
new business models such as system solutions and
services. At Philips, we have set ambitious targets to
Annual Report 2018

45

Societal impact 5.2.2

guide this journey. By 2020, we want 15% of our
revenues to come from circular products and services,
and we want to send zero waste to landfill in our own
operations. At the beginning of 2018, we added a
pledge to take back and repurpose all the large medical
systems equipment (e.g. MRI and CT scanners) that our
customers are prepared to return to us, and to extend
those practices across our professional portfolio by
2025. In 2018, after pilot projects in Italy and Greece, we
successfully launched the roll-out of a global program
to achieve our ambitious circular economy goal,
together with metrics to monitor progress.
For more information on our Circular Economy activities
and the progress towards targets in 2018, please refer to
Circular Economy, starting on page 212.

5.2.2 Green Revenues
Green Revenues are generated through products and
solutions which offer a significant environmental
improvement in one or more Green Focal Areas: Energy
efficiency, Packaging, Hazardous substances, Weight,
Circularity, and Lifetime reliability. Green Revenues
increased to EUR 11.5 billion in 2018, or 63.7% of sales
(60.2% in 2017), thereby reaching a record level for
Philips.
Philips Group
Green Revenues per segment in millions of EUR unless otherwise
stated
2016-2018
63.7%
58.5%

As a % of sales

60.2%
11,545
10,706

10,191

1,769

Connected Care &
Health Informatics

5,332

Diagnosis & Treatment

1,373
1,442

4,798

5,096

environmental impact. A good example is BlueSeal
magnet technology, which is designed to reduce
lengthy and costly disruptions in MRI practice, and help
healthcare facilities transition to more productive and
sustainable helium-free operations. In 2018 we received
third-party confirmation that the 2017 Philips portfolio
of 1.5T MRI scanners leads the industry in terms of
energy efficiency according to the COCIR SRI
methodology.
Connected Care & Health Informatics businesses
Our Connected Care & Health Informatics businesses
maintained their Green Product and Solutions portfolio
in 2018.
Personal Health businesses
Our Personal Health businesses focus on Green
Products and Solutions which meet or exceed our
minimum requirements in the areas of energy
consumption, packaging, and substances of concern.
Green Revenues in 2018 amounted to 62% of total
sales, compared to 58% in 2017. All our new consumer
Green Products with rechargeable batteries (like
toothbrushes, shavers, and grooming products)
outperform the world’s most stringent energy efficiency
norm set by the US Federal government. With the
introduction of the new Philips Sonicare DiamondClean
toothbrush the Green Revenue percentage in the Oral
Healthcare portfolio increased significantly, to over 88%.
We continue to make steady progress in developing
PVC/BFR-free products. More than 74% of our
consumer product sales consist of PVC/BFR-free
products, with the exception of the power cords, for
which there are not yet economically viable alternatives
available. In 2018 we introduced the PVC- and BFR-free
SpeedPro Max vacuum cleaner. In the remaining 26% of
consumer product sales, PVC/BFR has already been
phased out to a significant extent, though not yet
entirely.

5.2.3 Sustainable Operations
3,951

4,237

4,444

'16

'17

'18

Personal Health

Through our EcoDesign process we aim to create
products and solutions that have significantly less
impact on the environment during their whole lifecycle.
Overall, the most significant improvements have been
realized in energy efficiency, although there was also
growing attention for hazardous substances and
recyclability in all segments in 2018, the latter driven by
our Circular Economy initiatives.
Diagnosis & Treatment businesses
In 2018, our Diagnosis & Treatment businesses
maintained their Green Product and Solutions portfolio
with redesigns of various Green Products with further
environmental improvements. These products improve
patient outcomes, provide better value, and help secure
access to high-quality care, while reducing

46

Annual Report 2018

Philips’ Sustainable Operations programs focus on the
main contributors to climate change, recycling of waste,
reduction of water consumption, and reduction of
emissions. Full details can be found in Sustainability
statements, starting on page 196.
Carbon footprint and energy efficiency
Philips has committed to becoming 100% carbonneutral in our operations and sourcing all our electricity
usage from 100% renewable sources by 2020 as our
commitment to SDG 13.
Philips reports its climate performance to CDP (formerly
known as the Carbon Disclosure Project), a global NGO
that assesses the greenhouse gas (GHG) emission
performance and management of reporting companies.
For the sixth year in a row we received the Climate
Leadership (A) score for our performance in 2017. In
order to deliver on the carbon neutrality commitment
we have set ambitious reduction targets.

Societal impact 5.2.3

In 2018, our greenhouse gas emissions resulted in 766
kilotonnes of carbon dioxide-equivalent (CO2-e), but
because of our carbon neutrality program, some of our
emissions have been compensated via carbon offsets,
resulting in a total of 436 kilotonnes carbon dioxideequivalent (CO2-e).
Philips reports all its emissions in line with the
Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) as further described
in Sustainability statements, starting on page 196.
Philips Group
Net operational carbon footprint in kilotonnes CO2 -equivalent
2014 - 2018

743

757

821
627
436

2014

2015

2016

2017

Net operational
carbon footprint

2018

In 2018, our operational carbon intensity (in tonnes
CO2e/EUR million sales) improved by 11%, even as our
company recorded 5% comparable sales growth*). This
still excludes the acquired carbon offsets. As part of our
‘Healthy people, Sustainable planet’ program we are
continuing our efforts to decouple economic growth
from our environmental impact.
The significant reductions in our scope 2 (indirect)
emissions are mainly driven by our increased global
renewable electricity share from 79% in 2017 to 90% in
2018.
All our US operations were powered by renewable
electricity from the Los Mirasoles wind farm in 2018. In
addition, the Krammer and Bouwdokken wind farms in
the Dutch province of Zeeland, with whom we closed
long-term contracts through our renewable electricity
purchasing consortium with AkzoNobel, DSM and
Google, started to deliver wind energy. The two Dutch
wind farms will power all our operations in the
Netherlands in 2019. Combined with the Los Mirasoles
wind farm this covers some 52% of our total electricity
demand.
Combined with the achieved energy reductions, this led
to a 56% carbon reduction in our electricity
consumption (scope 2) in 2018 compared to 2017.
Our business travel emissions increased by 2%
compared to 2017, mainly due to an increase in air travel
over shorter distances (<4,000 km) where the CO2-e
per km are higher compared to long-haul air travel,

combined with higher DEFRA emission factors for air
travel. The emissions resulting from our lease cars
decreased by 6% and the emissions from rental cars
remained unchanged compared to 2017. In order to
further decrease our business travel emissions we will
continue to promote video conferencing and online
collaboration as an alternative to travel, as well as
promoting alternative modes of transport and
electrifying our lease fleet.
As a result of our airfreight reduction program, we
recorded a decrease of 9% in our logistics operations
compared to 2017. Air freight shipments decreased by
19%, ocean freight increased by 32%, and road transport
remained unchanged.
In 2017, we kicked off our carbon neutrality program by
compensating 220 kilotonnes of carbon emissions. In
2018, we increased this to 330 kilotonnes, equivalent to
the annual uptake of approximately 9 million mediumsized oak trees. This covers the total emissions of our
direct emissions in our sites, all our business travel
emissions and all our ocean and parcel shipments
within logistics. We do so by financing carbon reduction
projects in emerging regions that have a strong link with
SDG 3 and SDG 12.
We are investing in several carbon emission reduction
projects to gradually drive down our emissions to zero
by 2020. We have selected projects in emerging regions
that, in addition to generating emission reductions, also
drive social, economic and additional environmental
progress for the communities in which they operate,
such as:
Providing access to safe drinking water while
reducing wood consumption
These carbon emission reduction projects will provide
millions of liters of safe drinking water in Uganda and
Ethiopia and will reduce the mortality risk from waterborne diseases. Additionally, less wood will be required
for boiling water, leading to less indoor air pollution and
slowing down the deforestation rate.
Fighting against respiratory diseases and
deforestation by means of clean cookstoves
By financing highly efficient cookstoves in Kenya and
Uganda, less wood will be required for cooking, leading
to lower carbon emissions, a reduction in diseases
caused by indoor air pollution, and a lower
deforestation rate in these regions.
Providing access to clean energy while improving
health and education
This project will reduce the demand-supply gap in the
Dewas region in India and will provide renewable
energy to more than 50,000 households. The project
will also provide a mobile medical unit in 24 villages,
giving diagnosis and medicines free of charge twice a
month. Additional funding will be provided for
educational programs and improved sanitation facilities
in five local schools in order to maximize the social
impact.

Annual Report 2018

47

Societal impact 5.2.3

Philips Group
Operational carbon footprint by scope in kilotonnes CO2-equivalent
2014-2018
Scope 1
Scope 2 (marketbased)
Scope 2
(location-based)

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

40

39

42

38

40

109

106

121

58

26

210

212

252

225

227

Scope 3

594

612

658

751

700

Total (scope 1,2
(market-based),
and 3)

743

757

821

847

766

Emissions
compensated by
carbon offset
projects
Net operational
carbon emissions

220

330

743

757

821

627

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Personal Health

13.1

13.8

14.3

15.1

14.9

Diagnosis & Treatment

6.8

8.0

9.2

8.3

8.4

Connected Care &
Health Informatics

1.2

1.4

1.4

1.2

1.2

21.1

23.2

24.9

24.6

24.5

436

Philips Group
Ratios relating to carbon emissions and energy use
2014-2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

766

743

757

821

847

Operational CO2
efficiency in tonnes
CO2-equivalent per
million EUR sales

53.36

46.58

48.48

47.64

42.27

Operational energy
use in terajoules

5,747

5,639

5,526

4,858

5,118

0.41

0.35

0.33

0.27

0.28

Operational energy
efficiency in terajoules
per million EUR sales

Philips Group
Total waste in kilotonnes
2014 - 2018

Philips Group

During 2018, the applied emission factors used to
calculate our operational carbon footprint have been
updated with the latest DEFRA (UK Department for
Environment, Food & Rural Affairs) 2018 emission
factors. Philips reports all its emissions in line with the
Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) as further described
in Data definitions and scope, starting on page 200.

Operational CO2
emissions in kilotonnes
CO2-equivalent

Waste
In 2018, our manufacturing sites generated 24.5
kilotonnes of waste, comparable to 2017. The Personal
Health businesses contributed 61% of total waste,
Diagnosis & Treatment businesses 34%, and Connected
Care & Health Informatics businesses 5%.

Total waste consists of waste that is delivered for
landfill, incineration or recycling (including re-use). Our
sites are addressing both the recycling percentage as
well as waste sent to landfill as part of the ‘Healthy
people, Sustainable planet’ program. Materials
delivered for recycling via an external contractor
amounted to 21 kilotonnes, which equals 84% of total
waste, a significant increase compared to 2017 (80%). Of
the 16% remaining waste, 79% comprised nonhazardous waste and 21% hazardous waste. Our Zero
Waste to Landfill KPI excludes one-time-only waste
and waste delivered to landfill due to regulatory
requirements. According to this definition, in 2018 we
reported 1.7 kilotonnes of waste sent to landfill. 19 out of
our 36 industrials sites achieved Zero Waste to Landfill
status.
Philips Group
Industrial waste delivered for recycling in %
2018

30

Paper
19

Metal

Water
Total water intake in 2018 was 891,000 m3, comparable
to 2017. Personal Health, which consumes 60% of total
water usage, recorded a 7% increase. The increase was
mainly due to production volume increases at two
manufacturing sites in Asia. Diagnosis & Treatment and
Connected Care & Health Informatics showed a
decrease of 8% and 13% respectively.
Philips Group
Water intake in thousands of m3
2014-2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

Personal Health

585

614

613

496

533

Diagnosis & Treatment

392

268

269

312

288

Connected Care &
Health Informatics
Philips Group

74

94

81

80

70

1,051

976

963

888

891

In 2018, 98% of water was purchased and 2% was
extracted from groundwater wells.

48

Annual Report 2018

2018

15

Wood
11

Plastics
8

Chemical waste
General
Demolition scrap
Other

5
4
8

Societal impact 5.2.3

Philips included new reduction targets for the
substances that are most relevant for its businesses in
its ‘Healthy people, Sustainable planet’ program. In
order to provide comparable information at Group level,
please find the summary of the emissions of the
formerly targeted substances below. Emissions of
restricted substances were again zero in 2018. The level
of emissions of hazardous substances decreased from
5,243 kilos in 2017 to 3,363 kilos in 2018 (-36%), mainly
driven by changes in the manufacturing process
resulting in lower Styrene emissions and changes in the
product mix in the Personal Health businesses.
Philips Group
Restricted and hazardous substances in kilos
2014-2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Restricted
substances

20

18

1

-

-

Hazardous
substances

24,712

22,394

10,496

5,243

3,363

For more details on emissions from substances, please
refer to Sustainable Operations, starting on page 214.

*)

Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and
reconciliation of the most directly comparable IFRS
measure, refer to Reconciliation of non-IFRS information,
starting on page 90.

Annual Report 2018

49

Risk management 6

6 Risk management
6.1 Our approach to risk management
Vision and objectives
Taking risks is an inherent part of entrepreneurial
behavior, and well-structured risk management allows
management to take risks in a controlled manner.
Philips believes risk management is a value-creating
activity and, as such, it is an integral part of how we
govern the company. Philips’ risk management
approach is embedded in the systems we use to direct
and control our company such as Corporate
Governance, the Philips Business System (PBS
comprising Strategy, Operational Excellence and our
Planning & Performance Cycle), Risk Appetite, the
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework, the
Philips Business Control Framework and the Philips
General Business Principles (GBP), which will be further
elaborated in this chapter.
The company’s risk management policy and framework
are designed to provide reasonable assurance that our
strategic and operational objectives are met, that legal
requirements are complied with, and that the integrity
of the company’s financial reporting and its related
disclosures is safeguarded. Philips’ risk management
focuses on the following risk categories: Strategic,
Operational, Compliance and Financial risks. The main
risks within these categories are further described in
Risk categories and factors, starting on page 53. There
can be no assurance that the risk management policy
and framework will in all cases avoid or mitigate risks
that Philips faces.
The risk overview may not, however, include all the risks
that may ultimately affect Philips. Some risks not yet
known to Philips, or currently believed not to be
material, could ultimately have a major impact on
Philips’ businesses, objectives, revenues, income,
assets, liquidity or capital resources. All forward-looking
statements made on or after the date of this Annual
Report and attributable to Philips are expressly
qualified in their entirety by the factors described in the
cautionary statement included in Forward-looking
statements and other information, starting on page 100
and in the overview of risk factors described in Risk
categories and factors, starting on page 53.

Risk management governance
The Executive Committee, supported by the Risk
Management Support Team, oversees, identifies and
manages risks associated with Philips’ strategy and
activities, sets the Risk Appetite, provides and monitors
the ERM framework. The Risk Management Support
Team consisting of a number of functional experts
covering the various categories of enterprise risk
provides support by raising understanding of the
enterprise risk profile and by improving the ERM
framework. First-line management is primarily

50

Annual Report 2018

responsible for identifying critical business risks and for
the implementation of appropriate risk responses within
their responsibility area in accordance with the ERM
framework.
The Internal Audit function independently monitors the
quality of risk management and business controls
through the execution of a risk-based audit plan as
approved by the Audit Committee of the Supervisory
Board. Leadership at Board of Management and
Executive Committee level, Business Groups, Markets
and key Functional areas meet quarterly with Internal
Audit in management Audit & Risk Committees to
discuss weaknesses in risk management and business
controls as reported by internal and external auditors,
or as revealed by self-assessment of management, and
to take corrective action where necessary.
The Audit Committee and the Quality & Regulatory
(Q&R) Committee of the Supervisory Board assist the
Supervisory Board in fulfilling its oversight
responsibilities. The quality of Philips’ system of risk
management, of business control, and the findings of
internal and external audits are reported to and
discussed with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory
Board. The Q&R Committee’s role relates in particular to
the quality of the company’s products (including
software), services and systems and the development,
testing, manufacturing, marketing and servicing thereof,
and compliance with regulatory requirements relating
thereto. An in-depth description of Philips’ corporate
governance structure can be found in Corporate
governance, starting on page 76.

Risk appetite
The Executive Committee and management consider
risk appetite when taking decisions and seek to manage
risks consistently within the risk appetite. Risk appetite
is effectuated as an integrated part of our way of
working. The various elements of our governance
system including (and not limited to) our Strategy, GBP,
the PBS, Policies, Processes, Budgets and Authority
schedules all include risk taking guidance.
Philips’s risk appetite is different depending on the type
of risk, ranging from an entrepreneurial to a mitigating
approach. We believe we must operate within the
dynamics of the health technology industry and take
the risks needed to ensure we continually revitalize our
offerings and the way we work. At the same time,
Philips attaches prime importance to integrity, product
quality and safety, including compliance with
regulations and quality standards. Risk appetite for the
four main risk categories is visualized below.
Philips does not classify these risk categories in order of
importance.

Risk management 6.1

Risk Management
In order to provide a comprehensive view of Philips’
risks, structured risk assessments take place according
to the Philips risk management process standard,
applying a top-down and bottom-up approach. The
process is supported by workshops with management
at Group, Business, Market and Group Function levels.
During 2018, several risk management workshops were
held.

Key elements of the Philips risk management policy are:
• Annual risk assessment is performed for the Group,
Business Groups, Markets and key Functions as part
of the annual update of the strategic plan. Risks are
assessed and prioritized on the basis of their impact
on objectives, likelihood of occurrence and
effectiveness of controls. Management is
accountable for the timely development of effective
risk responses.
• Developments in the risk profile and management’s
initiatives to improve risk responses are explicitly
discussed and monitored as part of the various
quarterly management Audit & Risk Committees and
in the Quarterly Performance Reviews.
• As an integral part of the strategy review, the
Executive Committee annually assesses the
enterprise risk profile, including appropriate risk
scenarios and sensitivity analyses, and reviews the
potential impact of the enterprise risk profile versus
the Group’s risk appetite. This risk assessment is
based on the results from risk assessments of the
Group, Business Groups, Markets and key Functions,
findings from Philips Internal Audit, Legal and
Insurance, the materiality analysis as described in
Sustainability statements, views from key
stakeholders, external analysis, and risks reported in
the annual certification statement on Risk
Management and Business Controls.
• Developments in the enterprise risk profile and
management’s initiatives to improve risk responses
are discussed and monitored during the quarterly
meeting of the Audit Committee of the Supervisory
Board.
• The Executive Committee reviews at least annually
the Philips risk appetite and risk management
approach and improves the risk management
framework as and when required.
• The Philips risk appetite, risk profile and the risk
management framework are discussed at least
annually with the Audit Committee of the
Supervisory Board and with the full Supervisory
Board.

Annual Report 2018

51

Risk management 6.1

Examples of measures taken during 2018 to further
strengthen risk management, which have been
discussed with the Audit Committee and the full
Supervisory Board:
• Continued execution of the Enterprise Risk
Management (ERM) improvement roadmap;
• Implementation of an enterprise Governance, Risk
and Compliance IT platform;
• Continued development of the Information Security
Program in light of the increasing exposure to
cybercrime and information security requirements
resulting from digitalization and a focus on the
healthcare industry;
• Further development of risk management related to
long-term service-based business models;
• Continued improvements of the comprehensive
insurance program;
• Increased use of data analytics in controls
monitoring;
• Acquisition playbooks to support accelerated
acquisition integration;
• Revised plan for GBP deployment for the next three
years;
• Strengthened Q&R framework and oversight,
standardization of Philips Quality Management
System across the company, and more specific
Product Quality targets in the strategic plans;
• Further de-risking of pension liabilities with deficit
funding in the US defined-benefit plan; and
• Continuous improvement of risk dialogues and
continuation of risk workshops to cover Business
Groups, Markets and Functions.

Philips Business Control Framework
The Philips Business Control Framework (PBCF) sets the
standard for Internal Control over Financial Reporting at
Philips. The objective of the PBCF is to maintain
integrated management control of the company’s
operations in order to ensure the integrity of the
financial reporting, as well as compliance with laws and
regulations. Philips has designed its PBCF based on the
Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013)
established by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
Philips continuously evaluates and improves its PBCF to
align with business dynamics and good practice.
As part of the PBCF, Philips has implemented a
standard set of internal controls over financial reporting.
This standard set of internal controls, together with
Philips’ established accounting procedures, is designed
to provide reasonable assurance that assets are
safeguarded, that the books and records properly
reflect transactions necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements, that policies and procedures are
carried out by qualified personnel, and that published
financial statements are properly prepared and do not
contain any material misstatements. In each unit,
management is responsible for customizing the controls
set to their business, risk profile and operations.
Ongoing monitoring of Internal Controls over Financial
Reporting in the business and operations takes place as
part of their daily supervision and management. In
52

Annual Report 2018

addition, periodic monitoring takes place via
independent testing of SOx controls, internal control
reviews and semi-annual self-assessment procedures.
The findings that are identified through monitoring are
reported quarterly to the Executive Committee and the
Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board.
Annually, management’s accountability for internal
controls for financial reporting is evidenced through the
formal certification statement sign-off by Business
Group, Market and Functional management to the
Executive Committee. Any deficiencies noted in the
design and operating effectiveness of Internal Controls
over Financial Reporting which were not completely
remediated are evaluated at year-end by the Board of
Management. The Board of Management’s report,
including its conclusions regarding the effectiveness of
Internal Controls over Financial Reporting, can be found
in Management’s report on internal control, starting on
page 104.

Philips General Business Principles (GBP)
In the highly regulated world of healthcare, integrity
requires in-depth knowledge of the applicable rules
and regulations and a sensitivity to healthcare-specific
issues. Our GBPs set the standard for our business
conduct. They incorporate and represent the
fundamental principles by which individual employees,
the company and its subsidiaries must abide. The GBP
form an integral part of labor contracts in virtually every
country in which Philips operates, and translations are
available in 32 languages. Employees yearly reconfirm
their commitment to the code of conduct after
completing their GBP e-learning, while there is an
additional annual sign-off for executives. Detailed
underlying policies, manuals, training, and tools are in
place to give employees practical guidance on how to
apply and uphold the GBP in their daily work. In
addition, there are separate Codes of Ethics that apply
to employees working in specific areas of our business,
i.e. the Procurement Code of Ethics and the Financial
Code of Ethics. Details can be found at:
www.philips.com/gbp.
The GBP Review Committee is ultimately responsible
for the effective deployment of the GBP and for
generally promoting a culture of compliance and ethics
within the company. The Committee is chaired by the
Chief Legal Officer, and its members include the Chief
HR Officer, the Chief of International Markets and the
Chief Financial Officer. In 2018, all of our 17 markets
installed market compliance committees, which act as
local satellites of the GBP Review Committee, dealing
with GBP-related matters within the local context. The
Secretariat of the GBP Review Committee, together with
a worldwide network of GBP Compliance Officers,
supports the organization with the implementation of
GBP initiatives.
As part of our continuous effort to raise GBP awareness
and foster dialog throughout the organization, each
year a global GBP communications and training plan is
deployed. In 2018, the biennial legal compliance faceto-face trainings were once again deployed amongst

Risk management 6.2

thousands of our customer-facing employees. For our
online workforce, the GBP e-learning was fully updated,
aligning it with the company’s current risk profile. We
also invested in new concepts for our annual GBP
Dialogue Initiative in May and June.
One of the key controls to measure implementation of
our GBP is the GBP Self-Assessment, which is part of
our Internal Control framework. With the input from our
businesses and our internal control experts and in
alignment with our auditors, we have thoroughly
reviewed the design of this control to significantly
enhance its effectiveness and reaffirm its importance for
GBP compliance as a key internal control. The
scheduled go-live date is the first half of 2019. In 2018
there was also a significant increase in the scope of our
dedicated compliance analytics team, both in terms of
breadth – it is now active in the majority of our markets
– and in terms of depth, with the addition of new
indicators to our dashboards. With these dashboards
we are providing actionable compliance metrics to our
compliance community and business leaders.
The GBP are supported by established mechanisms
that ensure standardized reporting and escalation of
concerns where necessary. These mechanisms are
based on the GBP Reporting Policy, which urges
employees to report any concerns they may have
regarding business conduct in relation to the GBP. They
can do this either through a GBP Compliance Officer or
through the Philips Ethics Line. The latter enables
employees and also third parties to report a concern,
either by telephone or online, in a variety of languages,
24/7, all year round. Concerns raised are registered
consistently in a single database hosted outside of
Philips servers to ensure confidentiality and security of
identity and information. Encouraging people to submit
a complaint when they have exhausted all other means
of recourse will continue to be a cornerstone of our GBP
communications and awareness campaigns.

6.2 Risk categories and factors
In order to provide a comprehensive view of Philips’
enterprise risks, structured risk assessments take place
in accordance with the Philips process standard to
manage risk as described in Our approach to risk
management, starting on page 50. As a result of this
process, amongst others, the following actions were
performed during 2018:
• The potential impact of challenging global political
and economic developments on our results were
closely monitored, evaluated and addressed through
implementing mitigating actions to the extent
possible.
• Philips strengthened its (cyber) security governance
with the objective of increasing the ability to detect,
respond to and close (cyber) security incidents.
• Philips continued making significant investments in
its Quality Management System across the
company. Changes in the company-wide quality
leadership have been made and new standards and
initiatives have been launched.
• Philips paid an additional contribution to further
reduce the deficit in its US pension plan.
• In order to reduce its exposure to market risk, Philips
continued to sell portions of its ownership of Signify
(formerly Philips Lighting). Until the completion of
the sale of its entire ownership in Signify, Philips
remains exposed to changes in the share price of
Signify.
The risk overview highlights material risks known to
Philips which could hinder it in achieving its objectives.
The risk overview may not, however, include all the risks
that may ultimately affect Philips. Some risks not yet
known to Philips, or currently believed not to be
material, could ultimately have a major impact on
Philips’ businesses, strategic objectives, revenues,
income, assets, liquidity or capital resources. Philips
describes the risk factors within each risk category in
order of its current view of expected significance.
Describing risk factors in their order of expected
significance within each risk category does not mean
that a lower listed risk factor may not have a material
and adverse impact on Philips’ business, strategic

Annual Report 2018

53

Risk management 6.3

objectives, revenues, income, assets, liquidity, capital
resources or the achievement of Philips’ goals.
Furthermore, a risk factor listed below other risk factors
may ultimately prove to have more significant adverse
consequences than those other risk factors. Over time
Philips may change its view as to the relative
significance of each risk factor.

6.3 Strategic risks
Philips may be unable to adapt swiftly to changes in
industry or market circumstances, which could have a
material adverse impact on its financial condition and
results.
Fundamental shifts in the health technology industry,
like the transition towards digital, may drastically
change the business environment. If Philips is unable to
recognize these changes in good time, is late in
adjusting its business models, or if circumstances arise
such as pricing actions by competitors, then this could
have a material adverse effect on Philips’ growth
ambitions, financial condition and operating result.
As Philips’ business is global, its operations are
exposed to economic and political developments in
countries across the world that could adversely
impact its financial condition and results.
Philips’ business environment is influenced by political
and economic conditions in individual and global
markets. Mature economies are the main source of
revenues, and emerging economies are an increasing
source of revenues. Philips sources its products and
services mainly from the US, EU and China, and the
majority of Philips’ investments in tangible and
intangible assets are located in these geographies.
Changes in the monetary policy and trade and tax laws
of the US, China and EU can have a significant adverse
impact on other mature economies, emerging
economies and international financial markets. Such
changes, including competitive or nationalistic tariffs
and sanctions, may trigger reactions and
countermeasures, leading to adverse impacts on global
trade levels and flows, economic growth and political
stability, all of which may have an adverse effect on
business growth and stability on international financial
markets.
It remains difficult to predict changes in, among others,
US, Chinese and EU macro-economic outlook, foreign
policy, monetary policy, healthcare budgets, and trade
and tax laws, and the impact of such changes cannot
be predicted. Philips may encounter difficulty in
planning and managing operations due to the lack of
adequate infrastructure, foreign currency import or
export controls, increased healthcare regulation,
nationalization of assets or restrictions on the
repatriation of returns from foreign investments.
Economic and political uncertainty may have a material
adverse impact on Philips’ results of operations or
financial condition and can also make it more difficult
for Philips to budget and forecast accurately. Instability
and volatility on international financial markets could
54

Annual Report 2018

have a negative impact on the timing of, and revenues
from, the sale of the remaining interest in Signify and on
Philips' access to funding. Uncertainty remains as to the
levels of (public) capital expenditure in general,
unemployment levels, and consumer and business
confidence, which could adversely affect demand for
products and services offered by Philips. Given that
growth in emerging economies is correlated to US,
Chinese and European economic growth and that such
emerging economies are increasingly important to
Philips’ business operations, the above-mentioned risks
are also expected to grow and could have a material
adverse effect on Philips’ financial condition and results.
The general global political environment remains
unfavorable for the businesses due to continued
political conflicts and terrorism. Regional geo-political
instability in the Middle East, Turkey, the Korean
peninsula and other regions, as well as large-scale
migration and social instability could continue to impact
macroeconomic factors and the international financial
markets.
The form of exit of the United Kingdom from the
European Union (Brexit) remains uncertain, Philips is
exposed to operational and financial risks related to
Brexit which may have an adverse impact on its
financial condition and operating results. Please refer to
Operational risks, starting on page 55 for further details.
Philips’ overall risk profile is changing as a result of
the focus on health technology.
The risk profile of Philips is expected to focus on one
industry due to the dynamics of our changing products
and services portfolio, acquisitions and partnerships
resulting from the execution of our health technology
strategy.
Philips’ overall performance in the coming years is
expected to depend on the realization of its growth
ambitions and results in growth geographies.
Growth geographies are becoming increasingly
important in the global market. In addition, Asia is an
important production, sourcing and design center for
Philips. Philips faces strong competition to attract the
best talent in tight labor markets, and intense
competition from local companies as well as other
global players for market share in growth geographies.
Philips needs to maintain and grow its position in
growth geographies, invest in data-driven services,
invest in local talent, understand developments in enduser preferences, and localize its portfolio in order to
stay competitive. If Philips fails to achieve these
objectives, it could have a material adverse effect on
Philips' growth ambitions, financial condition and
operating result.
Philips' growth ambitions and related financial results
may be adversely affected by the economic volatility
inherent in growth geographies and by the impact of
changes in macroeconomic circumstances on growth
economies.

Risk management 6.4

Philips does not control joint ventures or associated
companies in which it holds interests or invests, which
could limit the ability of Philips to identify and
manage risks.
Philips holds interests and has invested, and may
continue to hold interests and invest, in joint ventures
and associated companies in which it has a noncontrolling interest. In these cases, Philips has limited
influence over, and limited or no control of, the
governance, performance and cost of operations of
joint ventures and associated companies. Some of
these joint ventures and associated companies may
represent significant investments and potentially also
use the Philips brand. The joint ventures and associated
companies that Philips does not control may make
business, financial or investment decisions contrary to
Philips’ interests or may make decisions different from
those that Philips itself may have made. Additionally,
Philips' partners or members of a joint venture or
associated company may not be able to meet their
financial or other obligations, which could expose
Philips to additional financial or other obligations, as
well as having a material adverse effect on the value of
its investments in those entities or potentially subjecting
Philips to additional claims. The combined Lumileds
and Automotive businesses is an example of an
investment in which Philips may continue to have a
(residual) investment but does not have control.
Acquisitions could expose Philips to integration risks
and challenge management in continuing to reduce
the complexity of the company.
Philips’ acquisitions may expose Philips in the future to
integration risks in areas such as sales and service force
integration, logistics, regulatory compliance, information
technology and finance. Integration difficulties and
complexity may adversely impact the realization of an
increased contribution from acquisitions. Philips may
incur significant acquisition, administrative and other
costs in connection with these transactions, including
costs related to the integration of acquired businesses.
Acquisitions may divert management attention from
other business priorities and risks.
Furthermore, the organizational simplification expected
to be implemented following an acquisition and the
resulting cost savings may be difficult to achieve.
Acquisitions may also lead to a substantial increase in
long-lived assets, including goodwill. Write-downs of
these assets due to business developments may have a
material adverse effect on Philips’ earnings (see also
Goodwill, starting on page 144).
Philips’ inability to secure and maintain intellectual
property rights for products, whilst maintaining
overall competitiveness, could have a material
adverse effect on its results.
Philips is dependent on its ability to obtain and
maintain licenses and other intellectual property (IP)
rights covering its products and its design and
manufacturing processes. The IP portfolio is the result
of an extensive patenting process that could be
influenced by a number of factors, including innovation.
The value of the IP portfolio is dependent on the

successful promotion and market acceptance of
standards developed or co-developed by Philips. This is
particularly applicable to Personal Health, where thirdparty licenses are important and a loss or impairment
could have a material adverse impact on Philips’
financial condition and operating results.

6.4 Operational risks
Failure to comply with quality standards, regulations
and associated regulatory actions can trigger
warranty and product liability claims against Philips
and can lead to financial losses and adversely impact
Philips’ reputation, market share and brand.
Philips is required to comply with the highest standards
of quality in the manufacture of its medical devices and
in the provision of related services. In this regard, Philips
is subject to the supervision of various national
regulatory authorities. For example, in the EU, a new
Medical Device Regulation (EU MDR) was published in
2017, which will impose significant additional premarket and post-market requirements. Conditions
imposed by such national regulatory authorities could
result in product recalls or a temporary ban on products
and/or stoppages at production facilities, or increased
implementation costs in the roll out of products and
services. In addition, quality issues and/or liability
claims related to products and services could affect
Philips’ reputation and its relationships with key
customers (both customers for end products and
customers that use Philips’ products and services in
their business processes). As a result, depending on the
product and manufacturing site concerned and the
severity of the quality and/or regulatory issue, this
could lead to financial losses through lost revenue and
the cost of any required remedial actions, and could
have further impact on Philips’ reputation, market share
and brand. Please refer to Compliance risks, starting on
page 57.
A breach in the security of, or a significant disruption
to, our information technology systems or violation of
data privacy laws could adversely affect our
operating results, financial condition, reputation and
brand.
Philips relies on information technology to operate and
manage its businesses and store confidential data
(relating to employees, customers, intellectual property,
suppliers and other partners). Philips’ products,
solutions and services increasingly contain
sophisticated information technology and generate
confidential data related to customers and patients.
Potential geopolitical conflicts and criminal activity
continue to drive increases in the number and severity
of cyber attacks in general. Like many other
multinational companies, Philips is therefore inherently
and increasingly exposed to the risk of cyber attacks.
Information systems may be damaged, disrupted
(including the provision of services to customers) or shut
down due to (cyber) attacks by hackers, computer
viruses or other malware. In addition, breaches in the
security of our systems (or the systems of our
customers, suppliers or other business partners) could
result in the misappropriation, destruction or
Annual Report 2018

55

Risk management 6.4

unauthorized disclosure of confidential information
(including intellectual property) or personal data
belonging to us or to our employees, partners,
customers or suppliers. This is particularly significant
with respect to patient medical records. Successful
cyber attacks may result in substantial costs and other
negative consequences, which may include, but are not
limited to, lost revenues, reputational damage,
remediation costs, and other liabilities to regulators,
customers and partners and may involve incurrence of
civil and/or criminal penalties. Furthermore, enhanced
protection measures can involve significant costs.
To manage cyber security risks, Philips has created a
Group Security function, instituted a Security Steering
Committee (SSC), and implemented security
management processes and controls, as well as
monitoring risk trends on material security topics, such
as the risk of security breaches in our information
systems and our products and services. Dedicated
security reports are shared with the Board of
Management, Executive Committee and Supervisory
Board and external auditors. On a quarterly basis,
briefings on cyber security risks are provided to the IT
Audit & Risk Committee, including an overview of risk
responses and progress made. Risk workshops are held
to calibrate cyber security risks and the appropriate risk
appetite.
The SSC contains representation from several corporate
functions, such as Group Security and Internal Audit,
Business Groups and relevant Executive Committee
members, e.g. the Chief Legal Officer, attend SSC
meetings; the SSC is chaired by the Chief Financial
Officer. The SSC evaluates and sets the Group’s security
strategy and issues security policies. In addition to
security strategy, the status of the action items defined
during the risk management process are evaluated on
progress and effectiveness. Additionally, foundational
and risk-based security training has been provided
throughout the organization. For Mergers & Acquisitions,
specific attention is devoted to ensuring a sufficient
level of security maturity before and during the M&A
processes, including post-merger integration. However,
these efforts may prove to be insufficient or
unsuccessful.
Philips has experienced cyber attacks but to date has
not incurred any significant damage as a result, or
incurred significant monetary cost in taking corrective
action. However, there can be no assurance that in the
future Philips will be as successful in avoiding damage
from cyber attacks, which could lead to financial losses
and other penalties and consequences described
above. Additionally, the integration of new acquisitions
and the successful outsourcing of business processes
are highly dependent on secure and well-controlled IT
systems.

Diversity in information technology (IT) could result in
ineffective or inefficient business management. IT
outsourcing and off-shoring strategies could result in
complexities in service delivery and contract
management.
Philips continuously seeks to create a more open,
standardized and cost-effective IT landscape, including
through further outsourcing, off-shoring,
commoditization and ongoing reduction in the number
of IT systems. These changes create third-party risk
with regard to the delivery of IT services, the availability
of IT systems, and the scope and nature of the
functionality offered by IT systems. Philips has
strengthened the security clauses in supplier contracts,
increased the compliance reviews for those contracts
(internally and externally), and instigated more reviews
on key suppliers with regard to information security.
However these measures may prove to be insufficient or
unsuccessful.
If Philips is unable to ensure effective supply chain
management and is faced, for example, with an
interruption to its supply chain, including the inability
of third parties to deliver parts, components and
services on time, and if it is subject to rising raw
material prices, it may be unable to sustain its
competitiveness in its markets.
Philips is continuing the process of creating a leaner
supply base with fewer suppliers, while maintaining
dual/multiple sourcing strategies where possible. This
strategy very much requires close cooperation with
suppliers to enhance, among other things, time to
market and quality. In addition, Philips is continuing its
initiatives to replace internal capabilities with less costly
outsourced products and services. These processes
may result in increased dependency on external
suppliers and providers. Although Philips works closely
with its suppliers to avoid supply-related problems,
there can be no assurance that it will not encounter
supply problems in the future or that it will be able to
replace a supplier that is not able to meet demand
sufficiently quickly to avoid disruptions.
Shortages or delays could materially harm Philips'
business. Most of Philips’ activities are conducted
outside of the Netherlands, and international
operations bring challenges. For example, Philips
depends partly on the production and procurement of
products and parts from Asian countries, and this
constitutes a risk that production and shipping of
products and parts could be interrupted by regional
conflicts, a natural disaster or extreme weather events
resulting from climate change. A general shortage of
materials, components or subcomponents as a result of
natural disasters also poses the risk of unforeseeable
fluctuations in prices and demand, which could have a
material adverse effect on Philips’ financial condition
and operating results.
Philips purchases raw materials, including so-called rare
earth metals, copper, steel, aluminum, noble gases and
oil-related products, which exposes it to fluctuations in
energy and raw material prices. In recent times,
commodities have been subject to volatile markets, and

56

Annual Report 2018

Risk management 6.5

such volatility is expected to continue. If Philips is not
able to compensate for increased costs or pass them on
to customers, price increases could have a material
adverse impact on Philips’ results. In contrast, in times
of falling commodity prices, Philips may not fully benefit
from such price decreases, since Philips attempts to
reduce the risk of rising commodity prices by several
means, including long-term contracting or physical and
financial hedging.
Failure to drive operational excellence and
productivity in Philips’ solution and product creation
process and/or increased speed in innovation-tomarket could hamper Philips’ profitable growth
ambitions.
To realize Philips' ambitions for profitable growth, it is
important that the company makes further
improvements in its solution and product creation
process, ensuring timely delivery of new solutions and
products at lower cost, and in customer service levels, to
gain sustainable competitive advantage. The
emergence of new low-cost competitors, particularly in
Asia, further underlines the importance of
improvements in the product creation process. The
success of new solution and product creation, however,
depends on a number of factors, including timely and
successful completion of development efforts, market
acceptance, Philips’ ability to manage the risks
associated with new products and production ramp-up
issues, the ability of Philips to attract and retain
employees with the appropriate skills, the availability of
products in the right quantities and at appropriate costs
to meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new
products and services may have quality or other defects
in the early stages of introduction. Accordingly, Philips
cannot determine in advance the ultimate effect that
new solutions and product creations will have on its
financial condition and operating results. If Philips fails
to create and commercialize products, or fails to ensure
that end-user insights are translated into solution and
product creations that improve product mix and
consequently contribution, it may lose market share
and competitiveness, which could have a material
adverse effect on its financial condition and operating
results.
Because Philips is dependent on its personnel for
leadership and specialized skills, the loss of its ability
to attract and retain such personnel would have an
adverse effect on its business.
The attraction and retention of talented employees in
sales and marketing, research and development,
finance, and general management, as well as highly
specialized technical personnel, especially in
transferring technologies to low-cost countries, is critical
to Philips’ success, particularly in times of economic
recovery. The loss of specialized skills could also result
in business interruptions. There can be no assurance
that Philips will be successful in attracting and retaining
highly qualified employees and the key personnel
needed in the future.

Risk of unauthorized use of intellectual property
rights.
Philips produces and sells products and services which
incorporate technology protected by intellectual
property rights. Philips develops and acquires
intellectual property rights on a regular basis. Philips is
exposed to the risk that a third party may claim to own
the intellectual property rights to technology applied in
Philips products and services, and that in the event that
their claims of infringement of these intellectual
property rights are successful, they may be entitled to
damages and Philips could incur a fine.
Any damage to Philips’ reputation could have an
adverse effect on its businesses and brand.
Philips is exposed to developments which could affect
its reputation. Such developments could be of an
environmental or social nature, connected to the
behavior of individual employees or suppliers, or could
relate to adherence to regulations related to labor,
human rights, health and safety, environmental and
chemical management. Reputational damage could
materially impact Philips’ brand value, financial
condition and operating results.
Brexit could have an adverse effect on the company's
operations
Philips sells products and services and has
manufacturing operations in the United Kingdom.
Depending on expectations (in financial markets) and
the actual mode of Brexit, which is currently uncertain,
the potential financial impact ranges from adverse
movements of the pound sterling versus the euro and
the US dollar, supply chain disruptions due to the reintroduction of customs controls and to the imposition
of new tariffs on imports or exports to and from the
United Kingdom. Philips has been preparing and
planning for the potential impact of Brexit and is taking
precautionary measures, e.g. by building additional
inventories to provide continuity of supplies and
services to customers. However, in the event of a
disruptive Brexit such precautionary measures may
prove to be unsuccessful or insufficient.

6.5 Compliance risks
Philips is exposed to non-compliance with product
safety laws, good manufacturing practices and data
privacy.
Philips’ brand image and reputation would be adversely
impacted by non-compliance with various product
safety laws, good manufacturing practices and data
protection. In light of Philips’ digital strategy, data
privacy laws are increasingly important. Also, the
Diagnosis & Treatment businesses and Connected Care
businesses are subject to various (patient) data
protection and safety laws. In the Diagnosis &
Treatment businesses and Connected Care businesses,
privacy and product safety and security issues may
arise, especially with respect to remote access or
monitoring of patient data, or loss of data on our
customers’ systems. Philips is exposed to the risk that
its products, including components or materials
procured from suppliers, may prove not to be compliant
Annual Report 2018

57

Risk management 6.5

with safety laws, e.g. chemical safety regulations. Such
non-compliance could result in a ban on the sale or use
of these products.
Philips operates in a highly regulated product safety
and quality environment. Philips’ products are subject
to regulation (e.g. the new EU Medical Devices
Regulation) by various government agencies, including
the FDA (US) and comparable foreign agencies (e.g.
NMPA China, MHRA UK, ASNM France, BfArM
Germany, IGZ Netherlands). Obtaining their approval is
costly and time-consuming, but a prerequisite for
introducing products in the market. A delay or inability
to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for new
products could have a material adverse effect on
business. The risk exists that product safety incidents or
user concerns, as in the past, could trigger FDA business
reviews which, if failed, could lead to business
interruption, which in turn could adversely affect Philips’
financial condition and operating results. For example,
we may be obligated to pay more costs in the future
because, among other things, the FDA may determine
that we are not fully compliant with the consent decree
and therefore impose penalties under the consent
decree, and/or we may be subject to future
proceedings and litigation relating to the matters
addressed in the consent decree. Please refer to
Consent Decree, starting on page 20.
Philips’ global presence exposes the company to
regional and local regulatory rules, changes to which
may affect the realization of business opportunities
and investments in the countries in which Philips
operates.
Philips has established subsidiaries in over 80 countries.
These subsidiaries are exposed to changes in
governmental regulations and unfavorable political
developments, which may affect the realization of
business opportunities or impair Philips’ local
investments. Philips’ increased focus on the healthcare
sector increases its exposure to highly regulated
markets, where obtaining clearances or approvals for
new products is of great importance, and where there is
a dependency on the available funding for healthcare
systems. In addition, changes in government
reimbursement policies may affect spending on
healthcare.
Philips is exposed to governmental investigations and
legal proceedings with regard to possible anticompetitive market practices.
European and various national authorities are focused
on possible anti-competitive market practices. Philips’
financial position and results could be materially
affected by an adverse final outcome of governmental
investigations and litigation, as well as any potential
related claims. In the past, Philips has been subject to
such investigations, litigation and related claims. See
also Contingent assets and liabilities, starting on page
162.

58

Annual Report 2018

Legal proceedings covering a range of matters are
pending in various jurisdictions against Philips and its
current and former group companies. Due to the
uncertainty inherent in legal proceedings, it is difficult
to predict the final outcome of pending or future
proceedings.
Philips, including a certain number of its current and
former group companies, is involved in legal
proceedings relating to such matters as competition
issues, commercial transactions, product liability,
participations and environmental pollution. Since the
ultimate outcome of asserted claims and proceedings,
or the impact of any claims that may be asserted in the
future, cannot be predicted with certainty, Philips’
financial position and results of operations could be
affected materially by adverse outcomes.
Please refer to Contingent assets and liabilities, starting
on page 162 for additional disclosure relating to specific
legal proceedings.
Philips is exposed to non-compliance with business
conduct rules and regulations.
Philips’ attempts to realize its growth ambitions could
expose it to the risk of non-compliance with business
conduct rules and regulations, such as anti-bribery
provisions. This risk is heightened in growth geographies
as the legal and regulatory environment is less
developed in growth geographies compared to mature
geographies. Examples include commission payments
to third parties, remuneration payments to agents,
distributors, consultants and the like, and the
acceptance of gifts, which may be considered in some
markets to be normal local business practice.
Defective internal controls would adversely affect our
financial reporting and management process.
The reliability of financial reporting is important in
ensuring that management decisions for steering the
businesses and managing both top-line and bottomline growth are based on reliable data. Flaws in internal
control systems, including internal controls to identify
and manage cybersecurity risks, could adversely affect
the financial position and results and hamper expected
growth.
Accurate disclosures provide investors and other market
professionals with significant information for a better
understanding of Philips’ businesses. Imperfections or
lack of clarity in disclosures, including disclosures with
respect to cybersecurity risks and incidents, could
create market uncertainty regarding the reliability of the
data presented and could have a negative impact on
the Philips share price.
The reliability of revenue and expenditure data is key
for steering the business and for managing top-line and
bottom-line growth. The long lifecycle of healthcare
sales, from order acceptance to accepted installation,
together with the complexity of the accounting rules for
when revenue can be recognized in the accounts,
presents a challenge in terms of ensuring consistent
and correct application of the accounting rules
throughout Philips’ global business.

Risk management 6.6

6.6 Financial risks
Philips is exposed to a variety of treasury risks and
other financial risks including liquidity risk, currency
risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, credit risk,
country risk and other insurable risk.
Negative developments impacting the liquidity of global
capital markets could affect the ability of Philips to raise
or re-finance debt in the capital markets, or could lead
to significant increases in the cost of such borrowing in
the future. If the markets expect a downgrade or
downgrades by the rating agencies, or if such a
downgrade has actually taken place, this could increase
the cost of borrowing, reduce our potential investor
base and adversely affect our business.
Philips operates in over 100 countries and its earnings
and equity are therefore inevitably exposed to
fluctuations in exchange rates of foreign currencies
against the euro. Philips’ sales are sensitive in particular
to movements in the US dollar, Japanese yen and a
wide range of other currencies from developed and
emerging economies. Philips’ sourcing and
manufacturing spend is concentrated in the Eurozone,
United States and China. Income from operations is
particularly sensitive to movements in currencies of
countries where the Group has no or very small scale
manufacturing/local sourcing activities such as Japan,
Canada, Australia and the United Kingdom, and in a
range of emerging markets such as Russia, South Korea,
Indonesia, India and Brazil.
The credit risk of financial and non-financial
counterparties with outstanding payment obligations
creates exposures for Philips, particularly in relation to
accounts receivable with customers and liquid assets
and fair values of derivatives and insurance receivables
contracts with financial counterparties. A default by
counterparties in such transactions can have a material
adverse effect on Philips’ financial condition and
operating results.
Philips is exposed to interest rate risk, particularly in
relation to its long-term debt position; this risk can take
the form of either fair value or cash flow risk. Failure to
effectively hedge this risk can impact Philips’ financial
condition and operating results.
For further analysis, please refer to Details of treasury /
other financial risks, starting on page 174.
Philips is exposed to tax risks which could have a
significant adverse financial impact.
Philips is exposed to tax risks which could result in
double taxation, penalties and interest payments. The
source of the risks could originate from local tax rules
and regulations as well as in the international and EU
regulatory frameworks. These include transfer pricing
risks on internal cross-border deliveries of goods and
services, tax risks related to acquisitions and
divestments, tax risks related to permanent
establishments, tax risks relating to tax loss, interest and
tax credits carried forward and potential changes in tax
law that could result in higher tax expenses and

payments. The risks may have a significant impact on
local financial tax results, which, in turn, could adversely
affect Philips’ financial condition and operating results.
The value of the deferred tax assets, such as tax losses
carried forward, is subject to the availability of sufficient
taxable income within the tax loss-carry-forward
period, but also to the availability of sufficient taxable
income within the foreseeable future in the case of tax
losses carried forward with an indefinite carry-forward
period. The ultimate realization of the company's
deferred tax assets, including tax losses and tax credits
carried forward, depends on the generation of future
taxable income in the countries where the temporary
differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits
were incurred, and on periods during which the
deferred tax assets become deductible. Additionally, in
certain instances, realization of such deferred tax assets
depends on the successful execution of tax planning
strategies. Accordingly, there can be no absolute
assurance that all deferred tax assets, such as (net) tax
losses and credits carried forward, will be realized.
For further details, please refer to the tax risks
paragraph in Income taxes, starting on page 138.
Philips has defined-benefit pension plans and other
post-retirement plans in a number of countries. The
funded status and the cost of maintaining these plans
are influenced by movements in financial markets and
demographic developments, creating volatility in
Philips’ financials.
A significant proportion of (former) employees in
Europe and North and Latin America is covered by
defined-benefit pension plans and other postretirement plans. The accounting for such plans requires
management to make estimates on assumptions such
as discount rates, inflation, longevity, expected cost of
medical care and expected rates of compensation.
Changes in these assumptions (e.g. due to movements
in financial markets) can have a significant impact on
the Defined Benefit Obligation and net interest cost. A
negative performance of the financial markets could
have a material impact on cash funding requirements
and net interest cost, and also affect the value of certain
financial assets and liabilities of the company.
Philips is exposed to uncertainty on the timing and
proceeds of a sale of Signify (formerly Philips
Lighting)
Philips has sold a substantial part of its ownership in
Signify since 2016. Philips’ overall objective is to fully
divest its ownership of Signify. The nature or form,
timing and level of proceeds from this divestment
process are uncertain. The timing and level of proceeds
will depend on general market conditions, investor
appetite for companies of this size and nature, and the
actual and expected future financial performance of
Signify. Philips no longer has control over Signify and
has deconsolidated the assets, liabilities and financial
results of Signify.

Annual Report 2018

59

Risk management 6.6

Philips is exposed to a number of financial reporting
risks, i.e. the risk of material misstatements or errors
in its financial reporting.
A risk rating is assigned for each financial reporting risk
identified by Philips, based on the likelihood of
occurrence and the potential impact of the risk on the
financial statements and related disclosures. In
determining the probability that a risk will result in a
misstatement of a more than inconsequential amount
or of a material nature, the following factors are
considered to be critical: complexity of the associated
accounting activity or transaction process, history of
accounting and reporting errors, likelihood of significant
(contingent) liabilities arising from activities, exposure to
losses, existence of a related party transaction, volume
of activity and homogeneity of the individual
transactions processed, and changes in accounting
characteristics in the prior period compared to the
period before that.
For important financial reporting risk areas identified
within Philips, please refer to the 'Use of estimates'
section in Significant accounting policies, starting on
page 112, as the company has assessed that reporting
risk is closely related to the use of estimates and the
application of judgment.

60

Annual Report 2018

Supervisory Board 7

7 Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board supervises the policies of the
Board of Management and Executive Committee and
the general course of affairs of Koninklijke Philips N.V.
and advises the executive management thereon. The
Supervisory Board, in the two-tier corporate structure
under Dutch law, is a separate and independent
corporate body.
The Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board are
published on the company’s website. For details on the
activities of the Supervisory Board, see Supervisory
Board report, starting on page 62 and Supervisory
Board, starting on page 80.

Jeroen van der Veer 2) 3)
Born 1947, Dutch
Chairman
Chairman of the Corporate Governance and
Nomination & Selection Committee
Member of the Supervisory Board since 2009; third
term expires in 2021
Former Chief Executive and Non-executive Director of Royal Dutch
Shell and currently Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Royal
Boskalis Westminster N.V. Member of the Supervisory Board of
Equinor ASA. Chairman of the Supervisory Council of Delft
University of Technology. Chairman of Het Concertgebouw Fonds
(foundation). Also a senior advisor at Mazarine Energy B.V

Christine Poon 2) 3) 4)
Born 1952, American
Vice-Chairwoman and Secretary
Chairwoman of the Quality & Regulatory Committee
Member of the Supervisory Board since 2009; third
term expires in 2021
Former Vice-Chairwoman of Johnson & Johnson’s Board of
Directors and Worldwide Chairwoman of the Pharmaceuticals
Group and former dean of Ohio State University’s Fisher College of
Business. Currently member of the Board of Directors of
Prudential, Regeneron and Sherwin Williams.

Heino von Prondzynski 2) 3) 4)
Born 1949, German/Swiss
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Member of the Supervisory Board since 2007; third
term expires in 2019
Former member of the Corporate Executive Committee of the F.
Hofmann-La Roche Group and former CEO of Roche Diagnostics.
Currently Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Epigenomics AG
and Quotient Ltd, and member of the Supervisory Board of The
Binding Site Group Ltd.

David Pyott 1) 4)
Born 1953, British/American
Member of the Supervisory Board since 2015;
first term expires in 2019

Head India Advisory Board, IBM. Non-Executive Board Member of
ICICI Bank Limited and Yatra Online Inc. Former Vice President,
Global Sales and Alliance - Asia Pacific & Japan, Hewlett Packard
Enterprise.

Former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Allergan, Inc.
Currently Lead Director of Avery Dennison Corporation. Member of
the Board of Directors of Alnylam Pharmaceuticals Inc., BioMarin
Pharmaceutical Inc. and privately held Rani Therapeutics, and
Chairman of Bioniz Therapeutics. Also Deputy Chairman of the
Governing Board of London Business School, member of the Board
of Trustees of California Institute of Technology, President of the
International Council of Ophthalmology Foundation and member
of the Advisory Board of the Foundation of the American Academy
of Ophthalmology.

Orit Gadiesh 1)

Paul Stoffels

Born 1951, Israeli/American
Member of the Supervisory Board since 2014; second
term expires in 2022

Born 1962, Belgian
Member of the Supervisory Board since 2018; first
term expires in 2022

Currently Chairwoman of Bain & Company and member of the
Foundation Board of the World Economic Forum (WEF) and
member of the United States Council of Foreign Relations.

Currently Vice Chair of the Executive Committee and Chief
Scientific Officer at Johnson & Johnson. Previously, Worldwide
Chair of Pharmaceuticals at Johnson & Johnson, CEO of Virco and
Chairman of Tibotec.

Neelam

Dhawan 1)

Born 1959, Indian
Member of the Supervisory Board since 2012; second
term expires in 2020

Marc Harrison
Born 1964, American
Member of the Supervisory Board since 2018; first
term expires in 2022
Currently President and Chief Executive Officer of Intermountain
Healthcare. Former Chief of International Business Development
for Cleveland Clinic and Chief Executive Officer of Cleveland Clinic
Abu Dhabi.

1)

member of the Audit Committee

2)

member of the Remuneration Committee

Jackson Tai 1) 4)
Born 1950, American
Chairman of Audit Committee
Member of the Supervisory Board since 2011; second
term expires in 2019
Former Vice-Chairman and CEO of DBS Group and DBS Bank Ltd
and former Managing Director at J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated.
Currently a member of the Boards of Directors of Eli Lilly and
Company, HSBC Holdings PLC, and Mastercard. Also NonExecutive Director of Canada Pension Plan Investment Board.

3)

member of the Corporate Governance and
Nomination & Selection Committee
4)

member of the Quality & Regulatory Committee
Annual Report 2018

61

Supervisory Board report 8

8 Supervisory Board report
Letter from the Chairman of the Supervisory Board
Dear Stakeholder,
Philips succeeded in making substantial progress in
2018, despite increasing global geo-political and
economic uncertainty. Around the world, people need
improved access and more personalized healthcare; at
the same time, we must better manage the cost of care
to society.
Philips has a compelling strategy to become a leading
provider of health technology along the health
continuum and to help advance value-based care and
population health. The company’s innovations have
strong market positions supporting personal health,
precision diagnosis, image-guided therapies and
chronic care, while enabling an effective, integrated
connected care continuum, leveraging the power of
data and informatics. Its focus on customers’ needs is
being rewarded with a growing number of long-term
strategic partnerships.
Philips continues to deliver on ambitious sustainability
commitments, supporting improved access to care for
underserved communities, driving the transition to a
circular economy business approach, and taking further
strides to become carbon-neutral in its operations by
2020.
With regard to financial performance, Philips was able
to deliver on its medium-term roadmap of growing
comparable sales*) within the 4-6% bracket, while
comparable order intake*) growth was 10% and the
Adjusted EBITA*) margin increased by 100 basis points
year-on-year. Capital allocation is balanced across

62

Annual Report 2018

dividends, share buybacks, organic R&D investments,
and M&A transactions.
The Supervisory Board spent several sessions in 2018
reviewing, among other things, Philips’ performance,
strategy, Board and Management succession, talent
pipeline, business controls, quality, regulatory
compliance, and sustainability programs.
During the course of the year the Board was
strengthened by the addition of two new members.
Marc Harrison, currently President and Chief Executive
Officer of Intermountain Healthcare, has in-depth
knowledge of health systems and the overall healthcare
industry in North America, as well as globally. Paul
Stoffels, currently Chief Scientific Officer at Johnson &
Johnson, has in-depth knowledge across medical
device, pharmaceutical and consumer segments and
has led teams to develop transformational new
medicines and healthcare solutions. I am confident both
will make a significant contribution to the work of our
Board.
Together with my colleagues on the Supervisory Board,
I look forward to providing further oversight of Philips as
it continues on its exciting journey as a leader in health
technology, improving the lives of billions of consumers,
patients and healthcare professionals around the world.
Jeroen van der Veer
Chairman of the Supervisory Board

Supervisory Board report 8

Introduction Supervisory Board Report
The Supervisory Board supervises and advises the
Board of Management and Executive Committee in
performing their management tasks and setting the
direction of the business of the Philips Group. The
Supervisory Board acts, and we as individual members
of the Board act, in the interests of Koninklijke Philips
N.V., its businesses and all its stakeholders. This report
includes a more specific description of the Supervisory
Board’s activities during the financial year 2018 and
other relevant information on its functioning.

Activities of the Supervisory Board
The overview below indicates a number of matters that
we reviewed and/or discussed during meetings
throughout 2018:
• The annual review of the company’s strategy.
Building on the strategy of becoming a leader in
health technology, this year’s strategy review
focused on the progress made in the execution of
the strategy by business and market, the latest
insights on market needs, technology developments
and competitor moves. The Supervisory Board also
reviewed future strategic scenarios along the health
continuum, which were subsequently detailed out in
strategy deep dives in the second half of the year.
• The performance of the Philips Group and its
underlying businesses and flexibility, under its
capital structure and credit ratings, to pay dividends
and to fund capital investments, including share
repurchases and other financial initiatives;
• Philips’ annual management commitment, the 2019
key performance indicators for the Executive
Committee and the annual operating plan for 2019;
• Quality and regulatory compliance, systems and
processes. The Supervisory Board also reviewed the
requirements of the European Union Medical Device
Regulation and the plan to meet these requirements.
Also refer to the description of the activities of the
Quality & Regulatory Committee in section Report of
the Quality & Regulatory Committee, starting on
page 75 of this Supervisory Board report;
• Capital allocation, including the dividend policy, the
progress made with the share buyback program
announced on June 28, 2017 and the M&A
framework;
• The potential scenarios for the envisaged sell-down
of the remaining stake in Signify (formerly Philips
Lighting);
• Significant acquisitions and divestments, including
the announcement (in June 2018) of the acquisition
of EPD Solutions;
• Philips’ industrial strategy, focusing on the supply
chain and manufacturing footprint optimization;
• The performance and transformation program for
Personal Health and Health System marketing;
• Enterprise risk management, which included an
update on the enterprise risk management
processes, the annual risk assessment and
discussion of the key risks faced by Philips, the
control measures and the possible impact of such
risks. Risk domains covered included strategy,
operations, finance and compliance;

• Talent management, covering strategic workforce
capabilities, inclusion & diversity, culture and
succession planning for senior management;
• Evaluation of the Board of Management and the
Executive Committee based on the achievement of
specific group and individual targets approved by
the Supervisory Board at the beginning of the year;
• Oversight of adequacy of financial and internal
controls;
• Significant civil litigation claims and public
investigations against or into Philips; and
• A review of Philips’ five-year sustainability program,
which was announced in 2016 and includes targets
for Philips’ solutions, operations and supply chain.
The Supervisory Board also conducted “deep dives” on
a range of topics including:
• Strategic roadmaps and education sessions on
guided therapy, precision diagnostics, connected
care, chronic care and consumer health.
• Artificial intelligence (AI) and Philips’ vision on
adaptive intelligence, covering Philips AI
competencies, capabilities and key platform
infrastructure.
• The strategy and performance of Philips North
America and China, including market developments,
business performance and key strategic initiatives.
The Supervisory Board also reviewed Philips’ annual
and interim financial statements, including nonfinancial information, prior to publication thereof.

Supervisory Board meetings and attendance
In 2018, the members of the Supervisory Board
convened for seven regular meetings and one
extraordinary meeting. Moreover, we collectively and
individually interacted with members of the Executive
Committee and with senior management outside the
formal Supervisory Board meetings. The Chairman of
the Supervisory Board and the CEO met regularly for
bilateral discussions about the progress of the company
on a variety of matters. The Supervisory Board also held
bilateral meetings with several members of the
Executive Committee to discuss various topics,
including operational performance, quality, investor
relations, innovation and financial and internal controls.
The Supervisory Board members who were appointed
in 2018 followed an induction program and interacted
with various Executive Committee members for deepdives on strategy, finance and investor relations,
governance and legal affairs, operations and human
resource management.
The Supervisory Board meetings were well attended in
2018. All Supervisory Board members were present
during the Supervisory Board meetings in 2018. The
Supervisory Board visited the Philips Stamford office in
Connecticut, North America, and reviewed the strategy
and performance of Philips North America. The
Supervisory Board also visited the company’s
manufacturing and research and development facilities
in Suzhou, China, to meet with local and regional
management and toured the site to view
Annual Report 2018

63

Supervisory Board report 8

demonstrations of the latest innovations in the area of
ultrasound, diagnostic imaging and image guided
therapy. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board visited the
company’s research facilities in Eindhoven, the
Netherlands, and met with various executives from
Philips Research and Design. The committees of the
Supervisory Board also convened regularly (see the
separate reports of the committees below) and all of
the committees reported back on their activities to the
full Supervisory Board. In addition to the formal
meetings of the Board and its committees, the Board
members held private meetings. We, as members of the
Board, devoted sufficient time to engage (proactively if
the circumstances so required) in our supervisory
responsibilities.

Composition, diversity and self-evaluation by
the Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board is a separate corporate body
that is independent of the Board of Management (and
the Executive Committee). Its independent character is
also reflected in the requirement that members of the
Supervisory Board can be neither a member of the
Board of Management nor an employee of the
company. The Supervisory Board considers all its
members to be independent pursuant to the Dutch
Corporate Governance Code.
The Supervisory Board currently consists of nine
members. In 2018, there were a number of changes to
the membership of the Board. Paul Stoffels and Marc
Harrison were appointed as members of the
Supervisory Board. Orit Gadiesh was re-appointed as a
member of the Supervisory Board for an additional term
of four years. The agenda for the upcoming 2019
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders will include a
proposal to re-appoint David Pyott as a member of the
Supervisory Board for an additional term of four years.
The current term of appointment of Heino von
Prondzynski will expire at the end of such meeting, after
serving three consecutive terms on the Board. Jackson
Tai, whose second term expires in May, 2019, will not be
available for re-appointment as a member of the
Supervisory Board. Due to other obligations and in
alignment with Philips, Jackson Tai will effectively step
down from the Supervisory Board on March 31, 2019.
We wish to express our sincere appreciation to Heino
and Jack and are grateful for their years of service, for
their dedication and the wisdom that they have brought
to Supervisory Board discussions and decisions.
The Supervisory Board pays great value to diversity in
its composition and it adopted a Diversity Policy for the
Supervisory Board, the Board of Management and the
Executive Committee (see the Corporate Governance
and Nomination and Selection Committee report for
further details). As laid down in the Diversity Policy, the
aim is that the Supervisory Board (and the Board of
Management and the Executive Committee) comprise
members with a European and a non-European
background (nationality, working experience or
otherwise) and overall at least four different

64

Annual Report 2018

nationalities, and that they comprise at least 30% male
and at least 30% female members. The Supervisory
Board’s composition furthermore follows the profile as
included in the Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory
Board, which aims for an appropriate combination of
knowledge and experience among its members
encompassing marketing, manufacturing, technology,
healthcare, financial, economic, social and legal aspects
of international business and government and public
administration in relation to the global and multiproduct
character of Philips’ businesses. The aim is also to have
one or more members with an executive or similar
position in business or society no longer than 5 years
ago. The composition of the Supervisory Board shall be
in accordance with the best practice provisions on
independence of the Dutch Corporate Governance
Code and each member of the Supervisory Board shall
be capable of assessing the broad outline of the overall
policy of the company. The size of the Supervisory
Board may vary as considered appropriate to support
its profile.
Currently, the composition of the Supervisory Board
meets the abovementioned gender diversity and
nationality targets. We note that there may be various
pragmatic reasons – such as other relevant selection
criteria and the availability of suitable candidates – that
could play a role in the achievement of our diversity
targets.
The Supervisory Board has spent time throughout 2018
considering its composition and it will continue to
devote attention to this topic during 2019.
In 2018, each member of the Supervisory Board
completed a questionnaire to verify compliance with
the applicable corporate governance rules and its own
Rules of Procedure. The outcome of this survey was
satisfactory.
Furthermore, an independent external party facilitated
the 2018 self-evaluation process for the Supervisory
Board and its committees by drafting the relevant
questionnaires as well as reporting on the results. The
questionnaire covered topics such as the composition
of the Supervisory Board, stakeholder oversight,
dynamics of Supervisory Board meetings and
relationship between the Supervisory Board and
Management, access to information, the frequency and
quality of the meetings, quality and timeliness of the
meeting materials, the nature of the topics discussed
during meetings and the functioning of the Supervisory
Board’s committees. The questionnaires were designed
in such a way that a comparison between two
consecutive years could be made. The responses to the
questionnaire were aggregated into a report, after which
bilateral meetings were held in early 2019 between the
Chairman of the Supervisory Board and each member.
For the Chairman, the Vice-Chair met with the other
Supervisory Board members before a bilateral meeting
was held between the Vice-Chair and the Chairman.

Supervisory Board report 8

The results of the self-evaluation were shared and discussed in the private meeting of the Supervisory Board and in the
committees. The responses provided by the Supervisory Board members indicated that the Board continues to be a wellfunctioning team. A number of suggestions were made to improve the performance of the Supervisory Board over the
coming period, such as increasing the Board’s focus on the company’s talent and succession pipeline, digital & data, and
developments in the health technology market and at business competitors. The functioning of the Supervisory Board
committees was rated highly and specific feedback was addressed by the Chairman of each committee with its members.
The periodic use of an external facilitator to measure the functioning of the Supervisory Board will continue to be
considered in the future.
Supervisory Board composition
Jeroen
van der
Veer

Neelam
Dhawan

Orit
Gadiesh

Christine
Poon

Heino von
Prondzynski

David
Pyott

Jackson
Tai

Paul
Marc
Stoffels 1) Harrison 2)

Year of birth

1947

1959

1951

1952

1949

1953

1950

1962

1964

Gender

Male

Female

Female

Female

Male

Male

Male

Male

Male

Nationality

Dutch

Indian

Israeli/
American

American

German/
Swiss

Initial appointment date

2009

2012

2014

2009

2007

2015

2011

2018

Date of (last) (re-)appointment

2017

2016

2018

2017

2015

n/a

2015

n/a

n/a

End of current term

2021

2020

2021

2021

2019

2019

2019

2022

2022

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

RC,
CGNSC &
QRC

RC,
CGNSC &
QRC

AC &
QRC

AC &
QRC

n/a

n/a

Independent

Committee memberships 3)
Attendance at Supervisory
Board meetings

Attendance at Committee
meetings
International business

American

Belgian

American
2018

RC &
CGNSC

AC

AC

(8/8)

(8/8)

(8/8)

(8/8)

(8/8)

(8/8)

(8/8)

(3/3)

(3/3)

RC (7/7)
CGNSC (7/
7)
QRC (7/7)

AC (5/5)
QRC (7/
7)

AC (5/5)
QRC (6/
7)

n/a

n/a

yes

yes

yes

RC (7/7)
CGNSC (7/
7)

AC (5/5)

AC (5/5)

RC (7/7)
CGNSC
(7/7)
QRC (7/7)

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

Marketing
Manufacturing

yes

yes

Technology & informatics

yes

yes

Healthcare
Finance

British/
American

yes

yes
yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

yes

1)

Appointed as member of the Supervisory Board with effect from August 1, 2018

2)

Appointed as member of the Supervisory Board with effect from October 19, 2018

yes

3)

CGNSC: Corporate Governance & Nomination and Selection Committee; AC: Audit Committee; RC: Remuneration Committee; QRC: Quality &
Regulatory Committee

Supervisory Board committees
The Supervisory Board has assigned certain of its tasks
to the three long-standing committees, also referred to
in the Dutch Corporate Governance Code: the
Corporate Governance and Nomination & Selection
Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit
Committee. The Supervisory Board also established the
Quality & Regulatory Committee. The separate reports
of these committees are part of this Supervisory Board
report and are published below.
The function of all of the Board’s committees is to
prepare the decision-making of the full Supervisory
Board, and the committees currently have no
independent or assigned powers. The full Board retains
overall responsibility for the activities of its committees.

Composition Board of Management
The agenda for the upcoming 2019 Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders will include proposals to reappoint Frans van Houten as President/CEO and
member of the Board of Management, and Abhijit
Bhattacharya as member of the Board of Management
fulfilling the role of CFO. The Supervisory Board is very

pleased that Frans van Houten and Abhijit
Bhattacharya remain available as members of the
Board of Management. Their re-appointment is
recommended in view of the fundamental progress of
Philips’ transformation into a solutions-driven health
technology company with an improved growth and
profitability profile. The Supervisory Board is impressed
by their continuing drive to further unlock Philips’
potential to grow its market positions and expand
margins, as the company aims to make the world
healthier and more sustainable through innovation.

Financial Statements 2018
The financial statements of the company for 2018, as
presented by the Board of Management, have been
audited by Ernst & Young Accountants LLP, the
independent external auditor appointed by the General
Meeting of Shareholders. Its reports have been included
in Independent auditor’s report, starting on page 189
We have approved these financial statements, and all
individual members of the Supervisory Board (together
with the members of the Board of Management) have
signed these documents.

Annual Report 2018

65

Supervisory Board report 8.1

We recommend to shareholders that they adopt the
2018 financial statements. We likewise recommend to
shareholders that they adopt the proposal of the Board
of Management to make a distribution of EUR 0.85 per
common share, in cash or in shares at the option of the
shareholder (up to EUR 777 million if all shareholders
would elect cash), against the net income for 2018.
Finally, we would like to express our thanks to the
members of the Executive Committee and all other
employees for their continued contribution during the
year.
February 26, 2019

8.1 Report of the Corporate Governance
and Nomination & Selection
Committee
The Corporate Governance and Nomination & Selection
Committee is chaired by Jeroen van der Veer and its
other members are Christine Poon and Heino von
Prondzynski. The Committee is responsible for the
review of selection criteria and appointment procedures
for the Board of Management, the Executive
Committee, certain other key management positions, as
well as the Supervisory Board.
In 2018, the Committee met seven times. All Committee
members were present during these meetings.

The Supervisory Board
Jeroen van der Veer
Christine Poon
Neelam Dhawan
Orit Gadiesh
Marc Harrison
Heino von Prondzynski
David Pyott
Paul Stoffels
Jackson Tai

Further information
To gain a better understanding of the responsibilities of
the Supervisory Board and the internal regulations and
procedures governing its functioning and that of its
committees, please refer to Corporate governance,
starting on page 76 and to the following documents
published on the company’s website:
• Articles of Association
• Rules of Procedure Supervisory Board, including the
Charters of the Board committees
• Diversity Policy for the Supervisory Board, the Board
of Management and the Executive Committee
Changes and re-appointments Supervisory Board and
committees 2018
• Paul Stoffels and Marc Harrison were appointed as
members of the Supervisory Board.
• Orit Gadiesh was re-appointed as a member of the
Supervisory Board.
Proposed re-appointments Supervisory Board 2019
• It is proposed to re-appoint David Pyott as a
member of the Supervisory Board.

*)

Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and
reconciliation of the most directly comparable IFRS
measure, refer to Reconciliation of non-IFRS information,
starting on page 90.

The Committee devoted time on the appointment or
reappointment of candidates to fill current and future
vacancies on the Supervisory Board, Board of
Management and Executive Committee.
Following those consultations it prepared decisions and
advised the Supervisory Board on candidates for
appointment. This resulted in the appointments of Paul
Stoffels and Marc Harrison and the re-appointment of
Orit Gadiesh, as members of the Supervisory Board.
This also resulted in the proposal to re-appoint David
Pyott as a member of the Supervisory Board, at the
upcoming 2019 Annual General Meeting of
Shareholders.
Under its responsibility for the selection criteria and
appointment procedures for Philips’ senior
management, the Committee reviewed the functioning
of the Board of Management and its individual
members, the Executive Committee succession plans
and emergency candidates for key roles in the
company. The conclusions from these reviews were
taken into account in the performance evaluation of the
Board of Management and Executive Committee
members and the selection of succession candidates*).
In 2018, the Committee devoted time on the
appointment or reappointment of candidates to fill
current and future vacancies on the Board of
Management and Executive Committee. This resulted in
the proposals to re-appoint Frans van Houten as
President/CEO and member of the Board of
Management, and Abhijit Bhattacharya as member of
the Board of Management fulfilling the role of CFO, at
the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in 2019.
This also resulted in the appointment of Vitor Rocha as
CEO of Philips North America and Roy Jakobs as Chief
Business Leader of Philips’ Personal Health businesses
in January and October 2018, respectively.
With respect to corporate governance matters, the
Committee discussed relevant developments and
legislative changes, including the Dutch Bill
implementing the EU Directive on Shareholder Rights.

66

Annual Report 2018

Supervisory Board report 8.1

Diversity
In 2017, the Supervisory Board adopted a Diversity
Policy for the Supervisory Board, the Board of
Management and the Executive Committee, which is
published on the company website.
The criteria in the Diversity Policy aim to ensure that the
Supervisory Board, the Board of Management and the
Executive Committee have a sufficient diversity of views
and the expertise needed for a good understanding of
current affairs and longer-term risks and opportunities
related to the company’s business. The nature and
complexity of the company’s business is taken into
account when assessing optimal board diversity, as well
as the social and environmental context in which the
company operates.
Pursuant to the Diversity Policy, the selection of
candidates for appointment to the Supervisory Board,
the Board of Management and the Executive
Committee will be based on merit. It is also noted that
the Executive Committee comprises of the members of
the Board of Management and certain key officers from
functions, businesses and markets. With due regard to
the above, the company shall seek to fill vacancies by
considering candidates that bring a diversity of
(amongst others) age, gender and educational and
professional backgrounds.
The Supervisory Board’s aim is that the Supervisory
Board, the Board of Management and the Executive
Committee comprise members with a European and a
non-European background (nationality, working
experience or otherwise) and overall at least four
different nationalities, and that they comprise at least
30% male and at least 30% female members.
Currently, the Supervisory Board and Executive
Committee/Board of Management comprise members
with more than ten different nationalities. The
composition of the Board of Management and
Executive Committee does not yet meet the above
mentioned gender diversity targets. Almost 25% (5 out
of 21) of the positions to which the Diversity Policy
applies (Supervisory Board and Executive Committee/
Board of Management) are held by women. As
indicated in the Supervisory Board report, there may be
a variety of pragmatic reasons – such as other relevant
selection criteria and the availability of suitable
candidates – that play a role in the achievement of our
diversity targets. That being said, the company has put
in place several measures to enhance diversity. In 2016,
the company set a renewed intention for Inclusion and
Diversity as we pivoted to become a health technology
company. Over the course of 2018, Philips has put in
place several measures and a more holistic approach to
sustainably enhance diversity:

• Inclusion and Diversity ambitions were embedded in
the global HR strategy and connected to systems,
processes and plans. Execution against this strategy
is being monitored monthly based on a global
scorecard, resulting in clarity, focus and
accountability.
• Philips appointed a global lead for Inclusion and
Diversity, which is part of the HR leadership team
and is assigned to create an integrated approach
towards building and fostering an inclusive work
environment in which diversity can thrive. Part of this
environment is being built around removing bias and
barriers. In this context, programs such as
unconscious bias and inclusion training have been
developed. Different mentoring programs were
deployed globally as well as various local Inclusion
and Diversity initiatives to meet different cultural
needs and opportunities.
• To achieve sustainable success, the company
focused on strengthening the talent pipeline from
attraction (with a targeted employer branding
campaign for senior women) to promotion and
retention. This resulted in a new milestone of having
21% of women at the most senior levels in the Philips
organization.
• Growing into a networked organization, the
company supported and encouraged the startup of
various employee networks. Multiple women’s
leadership programs were organized this year. In
North America and Europe – where the majority of
our senior female leaders reside – train the trainer
sessions were organized to empower passionate
employees to become certified facilitators.
• Measurement of Inclusion and Diversity through
employee surveys. The results of more recent
surveys showed positive trends, with both male and
female employees becoming more optimistic across
all grades about Philips’ encouragement towards
diversity of backgrounds, talents, and perspectives.
Philips’ commitment towards Inclusion and Diversity is
furthermore reflected in the company-wide Inclusion
and Diversity Policy, the General Business Principles
and the Fair Employment Policy.
The Committee continues to give appropriate weight to
diversity in the nomination and appointment process
for future vacancies, while taking into account the
overall profile and selection criteria for the
appointments of suitable candidates to the Supervisory
Board, Board of Management and Executive
Committee.

*)

Reference is made on 2018 Annual Incentive, starting on
page 70 setting out the performance review of the Board
of Management and the Executive Committee members
by the Remuneration Committee.

Annual Report 2018

67

Supervisory Board report 8.2

8.2 Report of the Remuneration
Committee
Introduction
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Heino von
Prondzynski. Its other members are Jeroen van der Veer
and Christine Poon. The Committee is responsible for
preparing decisions of the Supervisory Board on the
remuneration of individual members of the Board of
Management and the Executive Committee. In
performing its duties and responsibilities the
Remuneration Committee is assisted by an external
consultant and in-house remuneration expert acting on
the basis of a protocol which ensures that they act on
the instructions of the Remuneration Committee.
Currently, no member of the Remuneration Committee
is a member of the management board of another listed
company. In line with applicable statutory and other
regulations, this report focuses on the terms of
engagement and remuneration of the members of the
Board of Management. The Committee met seven times
in 2018. All Committee members were present during
these meetings.

determines whether performance conditions have been
met and can adjust the payout of the annual cash
bonus incentive and the long-term incentive grant
upward or downward if the predetermined performance
criteria were to produce an inappropriate result in
extraordinary circumstances. The authority for such
adjustments exists on the basis of contractual ultimumremedium and claw-back clauses. In addition, pursuant
to Dutch legislation effective January 1, 2014, incentives
may, under certain circumstances, be amended or
clawed back pursuant to statutory powers. For more
information please refer to Corporate governance,
starting on page 76. Further information on the
performance targets is given in the chapters on the
Annual Incentive (see 2018 Annual Incentive, starting on
page 70) and the Long-Term Incentive Plan (see 2018
Long-Term Incentive Plan, starting on page 70)
respectively.
Key features of our Board of Management
Compensation Program
The list below highlights Philips’ approach to
remuneration, in particular taking into account
Corporate Governance practices in the Netherlands.

8.2.1 Remuneration policy
The objectives of the remuneration policy for members
of the Board of Management, as adopted by the
General Meeting of Shareholders in 2017, are in line with
that for executives throughout the Philips Group. That is,
to focus them on improving the performance of the
company and enhancing the long-term value of the
Philips Group, to motivate and retain them, and to be
able to attract other highly qualified executives to enter
into Philips’ services, when required.
In order to compete for talent in the health technology
market, the Supervisory Board identified a new peer
group*) for remuneration benchmarking purposes in
2017 to align the Board of Management’s remuneration
levels closer to equivalent positions in this market.
These peer companies are either business competitors,
with an emphasis on companies in the healthcare,
technology related or consumer products area, or
companies we compete with for executive talent. These
consist of predominantly Dutch and other European
companies, plus a minority number (up to 25%) of US
based global companies, of comparable size,
complexity and international scope. Annual changes to
the peer group can be made by the Supervisory Board,
for example for reasons of changes in business or
competitive nature of the companies involved. Such
change will be disclosed if it has a substantial impact on
peer group composition. No changes were made to the
peer group during 2018.
To support the policy’s objectives, the remuneration
package includes a significant variable part in the form
of an annual cash bonus incentive and long-term
incentive in the form of performance shares. The policy
does not encourage inappropriate risk-taking.
The performance targets for the members of the Board
of Management are determined annually at the
beginning of the year. The Supervisory Board
68

Annual Report 2018

What we do
• We pay for performance
• We conduct scenario analyses
• We have robust stock ownership guidelines
• We have claw-back policies incorporated into our
incentive plans
• We have a simple and transparent remuneration
structure in place
What we do not do
• We do not pay dividend equivalents on stock
options, or restricted share units and performance
share units that do not vest
• We do not offer executive contracts with longer than
12 months’ separation payments
• We do not have a remuneration policy in place that
encourages our Board of Management to take any
inappropriate risks or to act in their own interests
• We do not reward failing members of the Board of
Management upon termination of contract
• We do not grant loans or give guarantees to
members of the Board of Management

*)

The remuneration benchmarking peer group currently
consists of 25 companies, being: Ahold Delhaize,
AkzoNobel, ASML, Atos, BAE Systems, Becton Dickinson,
Boston Scientific, Capgemini, Danaher, Electrolux,
Ericsson, Essilor International, Essity (formerly SCA,
company split), Fresenius Medical Care, Heineken,
Henkel & Co, Medtronic, Nokia, Reckitt Benckiser, Roche,
Rolls-Royce, Safran, Siemens Healthineers, Smith &
Nephew, and Thales. (Alcatel Lucent was excluded as it
was acquired by Nokia). This peer group differs from the
TSR peer group, see 2018 Long-Term Incentive Plan,
starting on page 70.

Supervisory Board report 8.2.2

8.2.2 Services agreements

8.2.3 Scenario analysis

Below, the main elements of the services agreements
(overeenkomst van opdracht) of the members of the
Board of Management are included.

The Remuneration Committee conducts a scenario
analysis annually. This includes the calculation of
remuneration under different scenarios, whereby
different Philips performance assumptions and
corporate actions are examined. The Supervisory Board
concluded that the current policy has proven to
function well in terms of a relationship between the
strategic objectives and the chosen performance criteria
and believes that the Annual and Long-Term Incentive
Plans support this relationship.

Term of appointment
The members of the Board of Management are
engaged for a period of 4 years, it being understood
that this period expires no later than at the end of the
following AGM held in the fourth year after the year of
appointment.
Philips Group
Contract terms for current members

8.2.4 2018 Internal pay ratios
In line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code,
internal pay ratios are an important input for
determining the Remuneration Policy for the Board of
Management.

end of term
F.A. van Houten

AGM 2019

A. Bhattacharya

AGM 2019

M.J. van Ginneken

AGM 2021

The ratio between the annual total compensation for
the CEO*) and the average annual total compensation
for an employee**) was 63:1 for the 2018 financial year.
Both annual total compensation figures include pension
benefits. The ratio increased from 56:1 in 2017.

Notice period
Termination of the contract for the provision of services
is subject to six months’ notice for both parties.
Severance payment
The severance payment is set at a maximum of one
year’s annual base compensation.
Share ownership
Simultaneously with the approval of the revised LongTerm Incentive (LTI) Plan in 2017, the guideline for
members of the Board of Management to hold a certain
number of shares in the Company was increased to the
level of at least 300% of annual base compensation
(400% for the CEO). Until this level has been reached
the members of the Board of Management are required
to retain all after-tax shares derived from any long-term
incentive plan. Frans van Houten and Abhijit
Bhattacharya have reached the required share
ownership level. Marnix van Ginneken is at 92.9% of his
target (i.e., 279% of annual base compensation).

*)

Based on total CEO compensation costs (EUR 5,391,265)
as reported in the Information on remuneration, starting
on page 166.

**)

Based on Employee benefit expenses (EUR 5,827
million) divided by the average number of employees
(67,649 FTE) as reported in the Income from operations,
starting on page 135. These results in an average annual
total compensation cost of EUR 86,136.

8.2.5 Remuneration costs

Proposed re-appointments at 2019 AGM
As mentioned in the Supervisory Board report, starting
on page 62, the agenda for the upcoming 2019 Annual
General Meeting of Shareholders will include proposals
to re-appoint Frans van Houten and Abhijit
Bhattacharya. The main elements of their new services
agreements will be made public no later than at the
time of issuance of the notice convening such meeting.

The following table gives an overview of the costs
incurred by the Company in the financial year in relation
to the remuneration of the Board of Management. Costs
related to performance shares and restricted share right
grants are taken by the Company over a number of
years. As a consequence, the costs mentioned below in
the performance shares and restricted share rights
columns are the accounting cost of multi-year LongTerm Incentive grants to members of the Board of
Management.

Philips Group
Remuneration Board of Management 1) in EUR
2018
Costs in the year
annual base
compensation 2)

base
compensation

realized
annual
incentive

performance
shares

restricted
share
rights

F.A. van Houten

1,205,000

1,205,000

1,264,286

2,319,460

A. Bhattacharya

725,000

718,750

637,536

942,220

M.J. van Ginneken

560,000

557,500

362,611

2,481,250

2,264,433

1)

Reference date for board membership is December 31, 2018.

2)

Annual base compensation as of April 1, 2018

pension
allowances

pension
scheme
costs

other
compensation

588

537,181

25,708

39,042

129

217,823

25,708

53,522

711,806

66

168,210

25,708

35,299

3,973,486

783

923,214

77,124

127,863

For further details on the pension allowances and pension scheme costs see Pensions, starting on page 72.

Annual Report 2018

69

Supervisory Board report 8.2.6

8.2.6 Annual base compensation

8.2.8 2018 Long-Term Incentive Plan

The annual compensation of the members of the Board
of Management has been reviewed in April 2018 as part
of the regular remuneration review. The annual
compensation of Abhijit Bhattacharya and Marnix van
Ginneken has been increased per April 1, 2018, from
EUR 700,000 to EUR 725,000 and from EUR 550,000
to EUR 560,000 respectively. The increases were made
to move the total compensation levels closer to market
levels, as well as to reflect internal relativities. The
annual compensation of Frans van Houten remained
unchanged at EUR 1,205,000.

8.2.7 2018 Annual Incentive
Each year, a variable Annual Incentive can be earned
based on the achievement of specific targets as
determined by the Supervisory Board at the beginning
of the year. These targets are set at challenging levels
and are partly linked to the results of the company (80%
weighting) and partly to the contribution of the
individual member (20% weighting). The latter includes,
among others, targets as part of our sustainability
program.
The on-target Annual Incentive percentage in 2018 is
set at 100% of the annual base compensation for the
CEO, at 80% of the annual base compensation for the
CFO and at 60% of the annual base compensation for
the other member of the Board of Management. The
maximum Annual Incentive achievable is 200% of the
annual base compensation for the CEO, 160% of the
annual base compensation for the CFO and 120% of the
annual base compensation for the other member of the
Board of Management.
To support the performance culture, the financial
targets we set are at Group level for all members of the
Board of Management. The 2018 payouts, shown in the
following table, reflect the above target performance on
two out of three metrics (i.e., the comparable sales
growth*) and EBITA*) metric) at Group level that apply to
Board of Management. The performance on the
comparable cash flow based metric was below target.
Philips Group
Annual Incentive realization in EUR
2018 (payout in 2019)
realized annual
incentive

as a % of base
compensation
(2018)

F.A. van Houten

1,264,286

104.9%

A. Bhattacharya

637,536

88.7%

362,611

65.0%

M.J. van Ginneken

*)

70

Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and
reconciliation of the most directly comparable IFRS
measure, refer to Reconciliation of non-IFRS information,
starting on page 90.

Annual Report 2018

Since 2013, the LTI Plan applicable to the members of
the Board of Management consists of performance
shares only. The current long-term incentive plan was
approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders in
2017.
Grant size
The annual grant size is set by reference to a multiple of
base compensation. For the CEO the annual grant size
in 2018 is set at 200% of base compensation and for the
other members of the Board of Management at 150% of
base compensation. The actual number of performance
shares to be awarded is determined by reference to the
average of the closing price of the Royal Philips share
on the day of publication of the first quarterly results
and the four subsequent trading days.
Vesting schedule
Dependent upon the achievement of the performance
conditions, cliff-vesting applies three years after the
date of grant. During the vesting period, the value of
dividends will be added to the performance shares in
the form of shares. These dividend-equivalent shares
will only be delivered to the extent that the award
actually vests.
Performance conditions
Vesting of the performance shares is based on two
equally weighted performance conditions:
• 50% Adjusted Earnings per Share growth (''EPS'')
and
• 50% Relative Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”)
EPS
EPS growth is calculated by applying the simple pointto-point method at year end. Earnings are the income
from continued operations attributable to shareholders,
as reported in the Annual Report. To eliminate the
impact of any share buyback, stock dividend etcetera,
the number of shares to be used for the purpose of the
LTI Plan EPS realization will be the number of common
shares outstanding (after deduction of treasury shares)
on the day prior to the beginning of the performance
period.
Earnings are adjusted for changes in accounting
principles during the performance period. The
Supervisory Board has discretion to include other
adjustments, for example, to account for events that
were not planned when targets were set or were
outside management’s control (e.g., impairments,
restructuring activities, pension items, M&A transactions
and costs and currency fluctuations).

Supervisory Board report 8.2.8

The following performance-incentive zone applies for
the LTI Plan EPS:
Philips Group
Performance-incentive zone for LTI Plan EPS in %
Below
threshold
Threshold
Target
Payout

0

40

100

TSR
A ranking approach to TSR applies with Philips itself
included in the peer group. The TSR peer group - as of
2017 - consists of 20 companies, including Philips.

Maximum
200

The LTI Plan EPS targets are set annually by the
Supervisory Board. Given that these targets are
considered to be company sensitive, LTI Plan EPS
targets and the achieved performance are published in
the Annual Report after the relevant performance
period. For realization of the 2016 grant, see the table
on vesting 2016 awards at the end of this section.

Philips Group
TSR peer group
Becton Dickinson

General Electric

Resmed

Getinge

Siemens
Healthineers

Groupe SEB

Smith & Nephew

Boston Scientific
Cerner
Danaher

Hitachi

Stryker

De Longhi

Hologic

Terumo

Elekta

Johnson & Johnson

Fresenius Medical
Care

Medtronic

The peer companies together reflect the business
portfolio of Philips. TSR scores are calculated by taking
an averaging period prior to the start and end of the
3-year performance period. The performance incentive
pay-out zone is outlined in the following table, which
results in zero vesting for performance below the 40th
percentile and 200% vesting for performance levels
above the 75th percentile. The incentive zone range has
been constructed such that the average pay-out over
time is expected to be approximately 100%.
Philips Group
Performance-incentive zone for TSR in %
Position 20-14 13

12

11

Payout

80

100 120

0

60

10

9

8

140

160 180 190 200

7

6

5-1

Under the LTI Plan the current members of the Board of
Management were granted 124,195 performance shares
in 2018.
The following table provides an overview at end
December 2018 of performance share grants. The
reference date for board membership is December 31,
2018.
Philips Group
Performance shares 1)

grant date
F.A. van Houten

A. Bhattacharya

M.J. van Ginneken

1)

number of
performance
shares
originally
granted

value at grant
date

end of vesting
period

number of
performance
shares
vested in
2018

value at
vesting date
in 2018

2015

54,877

1,410,000

2018

91,480

3,227,414

2016

59,287

1,446,000

2019

n.a.

n.a.

2017

73,039

2,410,000

2020

n.a.

n.a.

2018

69,005

2,410,000

2021

n.a.

n.a.

2015

11,676

300,000

2018

19,464

686,690

2016

26,650

650,000

2019

n.a.

n.a.

2017

31,822

1,050,000

2020

n.a.

n.a.

2018

31,138

1,087,500

2021

n.a.

n.a.

2015

17,514

450,000

2018

29,196

1,030,035

2016

20,972

511,500

2019

n.a.

n.a.

2017

18,563

612,500

2020

n.a.

n.a.

2018

24,052

840,000

2021

n.a.

n.a.

Annual Report 2018

71

Dividend performance shares not included

For more details of the LTI Plan see Share-based compensation, starting on page 163.

Supervisory Board report 8.2.9

Realization of 2016 performance share grant
The 3-year performance period of the 2016
performance share grant ended on December 31, 2018.
The payout results are governed by the former 2013 LTI
Plan and are explained below.

relate to the profit and loss impact of acquisitions,
restructuring costs, impact of foreign exchange
variations versus plan and non-recurring tax impacts.
The sum of these adjustments had a negative impact of
16 cents.

TSR (50% weighting)
Following Johnson Controls merger with Tyco
International (completed September 2016), the
Supervisory Board adopted the approach of
recognizing Johnson Controls performance through the
merger date. As a proxy for future performance,
reinvestment in an index of the remaining 19 peer
companies was assumed (effectively retaining a peer
group of 20 companies).

The resulting LTI Plan EPS achievement was
determined by the Supervisory Board as 88%.

The TSR achieved by Philips during the performance
period was 51.61%. This positioned Philips between the
4th and 5th ranked company in the peer group shown
in the following table, resulting in an achievement of
200%.
TSR results LTI Plan 2016 grant: 51.61%
Total Shareholder Return ranking per December 31, 2018
Start date: December 2015
End date: December 2018
Company

total return

rank number

Honeywell International

61.86%

1

Emerson Electric

56.06%

2

Smiths Group

53.97%

3

Eaton

53.14%

4

Johnson & Johnson

50.27%

5

Danaher

47.88%

6

3M

39.23%

7

LG Electronics

33.35%

8

Medtronic

32.38%

9

Procter & Gamble

29.10%

10

Schneider Electric

26.59%

11

Siemens

24.49%

12

ABB

23.70%

13

Johnson Controls

20.45%

14

Legrand

13.16%

15

Toshiba

12.45%

16

Hitachi
Panasonic

2.25%

17

(7.10)%

18

Electrolux

(10.05)%

19

General Electric

(64.99)%

20

Adjusted EPS growth (50% weighting)
The LTI Plan EPS payouts and targets set at the
beginning of the performance period were as follows:
Below
threshold
EPS
(euro)

Threshold

Target

Maximum

<1.30

1.30

1.60

1.90

0%

40%

100%

200%

Payout

LTI Plan EPS is based on the underlying income from
continuing operations attributable to shareholders, as
included in the Annual Report, adjusted for changes in
accounting principles. Furthermore, the Supervisory
Board has also deemed it appropriate to make
adjustments relating to certain other items that were not
contemplated when the targets were set in 2016. These
72

Annual Report 2018

In view of the above, the following performance
achievement and vesting levels have been determined
by the Supervisory Board in respect of the 2016 grant of
performance shares:
achievement

weighting

vesting level

TSR

200%

50%

100%

EPS

88%

50%

total

44%
144%

8.2.9 Pensions
Effective January 1, 2015 pension plans which allow
pension accrual based on a pensionable salary
exceeding an amount in 2018 of EUR 105,075 are, for
fiscal purposes, considered to be non-qualifying
schemes. For this reason the Executive Pension Plan in
the Netherlands was terminated.
The following pension arrangement is in place for the
current members of the Board of Management working
under a Dutch contract:
• Flex Pension Plan in the Netherlands, which is a
Collective Defined Contribution plan with a fixed
contribution of (currently) 26.2% up to the maximum
pensionable salary of EUR 105,075 (effective
January 1, 2018). The Flex Plan has a target
retirement age of 67 and a target accrual rate of
1.85%;
• A gross Pension Allowance equal to 25% of the base
compensation exceeding EUR 105,075;
• A temporary gross Transition Allowance, for a
maximum period of 8 years (first 5 years in full; year
6: 75%; year 7: 50%, year 8: 25%) for members of the
Board who were participants of the former Executive
Pension Plan. The level of the allowance is based on
the age and salary of the Board member on
December 31, 2014.
The total pension cost of the Company related to this
pension arrangement (including the temporary gross
Transition Allowance) is at a comparable level over a
period of time to the pension cost under the former
Executive Pension Plan.

Supervisory Board report 8.2.10

8.2.10 Additional arrangements
In addition to the main conditions as stipulated in the
services agreements, a number of additional
arrangements apply to members of the Board of
Management. These additional arrangements, such as
expense and relocation allowances, medical insurance,
accident insurance and company car arrangements, are
in line with those for Philips executives in the
Netherlands. In the event of disablement, members of
the Board of Management are entitled to benefits in line
with those for other Philips executives in the
Netherlands.
Unless the law provides otherwise, the members of the
Board of Management and of the Supervisory Board
shall be reimbursed by the Company for various costs
and expenses, like reasonable costs of defending
claims, as formalized in the Articles of Association.
Under certain circumstances, described in the Articles of
Association, such as an action or failure to act by a
member of the Board of Management or a member of
the Supervisory Board that can be characterized as
intentional (“opzettelijk”), intentionally reckless
(“bewust roekeloos”) or seriously culpable (“ernstig
verwijtbaar”), there will be no entitlement to this
reimbursement. The Company has also taken out
liability insurance (D&O - Directors & Officers) for the
persons concerned.

8.2.11 Remuneration of the Supervisory Board
The current remuneration structure for Supervisory
Board members was approved at the 2018
Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. The
table below provides an overview of the current
remuneration structure. Prior to the 2017 Annual
General Meeting of Shareholders, the Supervisory
Board withdrew a proposal on the remuneration of the
Supervisory Board based on consultations with
shareholders that made it clear that further discussions
were needed to attain a broader consensus on this
topic. After this withdrawal, we continued our
discussions with shareholders in multiple countries,
including the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, France
and North America (which constitute the largest part of
our ownership base). In addition, we met with
institutional advisory organizations. The positive
feedback from these meetings resulted in the
Supervisory Board submitting an updated proposal to
the 2018 Extraordinary General Meeting of
Shareholders, which approved the proposal.

The table below provides an overview of the current
remuneration structure:
Philips Group
Remuneration Supervisory Board 1) in EUR
2018
Chairman

Vice Chair

Member

155,000

115,000

100,000

Audit Committee

27,000

n.a.

18,000

Remuneration
Committee

21,000

n.a.

14,000

Corporate
Governance and
Nomination &
Selection Committee

21,000

n.a.

14,000

Quality & Regulatory
Committee

Supervisory Board

21,000

n.a.

14,000

Attendance fee per
inter-European trip

2,500

2,500

2,500

Attendance fee per
intercontinental trip

5,000

5,000

5,000

Entitlement to Philips
product arrangement

2,000

2,000

2,000

1)

For more details, see note 27, Information on remuneration

8.2.12 Year 2019
Annual Incentive Board of Management
In line with the new remuneration policy, metrics will be
disclosed ex-ante. For 2019, these are comparable sales
growth*), EBITA*), and cash flow based metrics
measured at Group level (i.e., unchanged from 2018).
The targets associated with these metrics will not be
disclosed as these are company sensitive.
In line with the remuneration policy as adopted by the
General Meeting of Shareholders in 2017, the 2019 ontarget Annual Incentive percentage for Mr. van
Ginneken is increased to 70% of annual base
compensation (currently 60%). The maximum Annual
Incentive achievable will remain to be 2 times the ontarget levels.

*)

Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and
reconciliation of the most directly comparable IFRS
measure, refer to Reconciliation of non-IFRS information,
starting on page 90.

Annual Report 2018

73

Supervisory Board report 8.3

8.3 Report of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by Jackson Tai, and its
other members are Neelam Dhawan, Orit Gadiesh and
David Pyott. Jeroen van der Veer also regularly
participated in Audit Committee meetings. The
Committee assists the Supervisory Board in fulfilling its
supervisory responsibilities for, among other things,
ensuring the integrity of the company’s financial
statements, reviewing the company’s internal controls
and enterprise risk management.
The Audit Committee met five times during 2018,
convened education sessions, and reported its findings
to the plenary Supervisory Board. All Audit Committee
members were present during these meetings.
The CEO, the CFO, the Chief Legal Officer, the Head of
Internal Audit, the Group Chief Accountant and the
external auditor (Ernst & Young Accountants LLP)
attended all regular meetings.
Furthermore, the Committee met separately with each
of the CEO, the CFO, the Chief Legal Officer, the Head of
Internal Audit and the external auditor. In addition, the
Audit Committee chair met one-on-one with the above
and also the Group Treasurer, the Group Chief
Accountant, the Head of Legal Compliance, the Chief
Information Security Officer and the Chief Information
Officer prior to Committee meetings.
The overview below indicates a number of matters that
we reviewed and/or discussed during Committee
meetings throughout 2018:
• The company’s 2018 annual and interim financial
statements, including non-financial information,
prior to publication thereof. The Committee also
assessed in its quarterly meetings the adequacy and
appropriateness of internal control policies and
internal audit programs and their findings.
• Matters relating to accounting policies, financial
risks, reporting and compliance with accounting
standards. Compliance with statutory and legal
requirements and regulations, particularly in the
financial domain, was also reviewed. Important
findings, Philips’ top and emerging areas of risk
(including the internal auditor’s reporting thereon,
and the Chief Legal Officer’s review of litigation and
other claims) and follow-up actions and appropriate
measures were examined thoroughly.
• Each quarter, the Committee reviewed the
company’s cash flow generation, liquidity and
financing headroom, under its capital structure and
credit ratings, to pay dividends and to fund capital
investments, including share repurchases and other
financial initiatives.
The Committee also monitored the ongoing goodwill
impairment indicators and reviewed the goodwill
impairment tests performed in the fourth quarter, risk
management, information and cyber security risks,
legal compliance and developments in regulatory
investigations as well as legal proceedings including
antitrust investigations and related provisions.
74

Annual Report 2018

• Specific finance topics included dividend policy,
share repurchases, capital spending, pension derisking and the company’s debt financing strategy.
• The Committee reviewed Philips’ Enterprise Risk
Management, which included an annual risk
assessment and discussion of Philips’ top and
emerging risks and mitigating actions.
• The Committee reviewed the progress made with
the implementation of an integrated, company-wide
data and IT platform, the ERP kernel consolidation
and the implementation timetable.
• With regard to internal audit, the Committee
reviewed and, if required, approved the internal
audit charter, audit plan, audit scope and its
coverage in relation to the scope of the external
audit, as well as the leadership succession, staffing,
independence and organizational structure of the
internal audit function.
• With regard to the external audit, the Committee
reviewed the proposed audit scope, approach and
fees, the non- audit services provided by the
external auditor in conformity with the Philips
Auditor Policy, as well as any changes to this policy.
The Committee also reviewed the key audit matters,
focusing on revenue recognition (multiple element
sales contracts and sales promotion), valuation of
goodwill, taxes (valuation and disclosure related to
deferred tax assets), valuation and disclosure of
accrual estimates for legal claims, litigations and
contingencies and valuation of capitalized research
and development cost (product development).
• The Committee reviewed the independence as well
as the professional fitness and good standing of the
external auditor and its engagement partners. For
information on the fees of Group auditor, please
refer to ‘Audit fees’ in the note Income from
operations, starting on page 135.
• The company’s policy on business controls, legal
compliance and the General Business Principles
(including the deployment thereof). The Committee
was informed on, and discussed and monitored
closely the company’s internal control certification
processes, in particular compliance with section 404
of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act and its requirements
regarding assessment, review and monitoring of
internal controls. It also discussed on a regular basis
the developments in and findings relating to conduct
resulting from investigations into alleged violations
of the General Business Principles and, if required,
any measures taken.
The Committee convened education sessions on
compliance under the EU General Data Protection
Regulation as well as regulatory and statutory
requirements, and also a separate session on the new
accounting standard IFRS 16 (leases) and the
implications for Philips.
During each Audit Committee meeting, the Committee
reviewed the quarterly report from the external auditor
in which the auditor set forth its findings and attention
points during the relevant period. Apart from the Audit
Committee meetings, the external auditor attended all
private sessions with the Audit Committee, where their

Supervisory Board report 8.4

observations were further discussed. The annual audit
letter was circulated to the full Supervisory Board and
planned actions to address the items raised were
discussed with Management in the Audit Committee
meetings and also in private sessions with
Management. The Committee assessed the overall
performance of the external auditor, as required by the
Auditor Policy. This assessment resulted in the proposal
to re-appoint the Company’s current external auditor,
Ernst & Young Accountants LLP, at the upcoming 2019
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
Finally, the Committee also reviewed its own Charter
and concluded that it was satisfactory.

8.4 Report of the Quality & Regulatory
Committee
The Quality and Regulatory Committee was established
in view of the importance of the quality of the
company’s products, systems, services, and software.
The Committee provides broad oversight of compliance
to the regulatory requirements that govern the
development, manufacturing, marketing and servicing
of the company’s products. The Q&R Committee assists
the Supervisory Board in fulfilling its oversight
responsibilities in these areas. It is chaired by Christine
Poon and its members are Heino von Prondzynski,
David Pyott and Jackson Tai.
The Q&R Committee met seven times in 2018. All
Committee members were present during these
meetings, with the exception of one member, who was
unable to attend the April Committee meeting. The
Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Quality Officer
were present during these meetings.

The overview below indicates some of the matters that
were discussed during meetings throughout 2018:
• Quality and regulatory dashboards, which display
key performance indicators for business groups and
markets, measuring performance and continuous
improvement to enhance quality and compliance;
• The status and outcome of quality & regulatory
investigations and related matters, including the
progress made in line with the terms of the consent
decree with the US Department of Justice,
representing the FDA, focusing primarily on Philips’
defibrillator manufacturing in the US;
• The 2018 quality transformation priorities, focusing
on quality and integrity, product quality, Philips
Quality Management Systems and compliance;
• The culture of quality and measures taken to
enhance the quality culture and awareness in the
company;
• Complaint handling and post market surveillance;
• Strategic supplier quality risk management
processes and supplier quality dashboards.
• Regulatory developments, including the company’s
preparations to implement the EU Medical Device
Regulation and the potential impact of this
regulation on capabilities and the product portfolio;
and
• Review progress in development of talent and
capabilities of the company’s quality and regulatory
function.
Members of the Q&R Committee also visited the
manufacturing facilities in Suzhou, China, and met with
local and regional management.

Annual Report 2018

75

Corporate governance 9

9 Corporate governance
Corporate governance of the Philips
Group - Introduction
Koninklijke Philips N.V., a company organized under
Dutch law, is the parent company of the Philips Group.
The Company, started as a limited partnership with the
name Philips & Co in Eindhoven, the Netherlands, in
1891, and was converted into the company with limited
liability N.V. Philips’ Gloeilampenfabrieken on
September 11, 1912. The Company’s name was changed
to Philips Electronics N.V. on May 6, 1994, to Koninklijke
Philips Electronics N.V. on April 1, 1998, and to
Koninklijke Philips N.V. on May 15, 2013. Its shares have
been listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange,
Euronext Amsterdam, since 1912. The shares have been
traded in the United States since 1962 and have been
listed on the New York Stock Exchange since 1987.
In recent decades the Company has pursued a
consistent policy to improve its corporate governance in
line with Dutch, US and international best practices. The
Company has worked to incorporate a fair disclosure
practice in its investor relations policy, to strengthen the
accountability of its executive management and the
members of its Supervisory Board (who are
independent of the Company), and to respect and
enhance the rights and powers of shareholders and to
raise the level of communication with investors. The
Company is required to comply with, inter alia, Dutch
corporate governance rules, the US Sarbanes-Oxley
Act, and other US securities laws and related regulations
(including applicable stock exchange rules), insofar as
such US laws and regulations are applicable to the
Company. A summary of the significant differences
between the Company’s corporate governance practice
and the New York Stock Exchange corporate
governance standards applicable to US domestic
issuers is published on the Company’s website
(www.philips.com/investor).
In this report, the Company addresses its overall
corporate governance structure and states to what
extent and in what way it applies the principles and
best practice provisions of the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code (dated December 8, 2016). This
report also includes the information which the
Company is required to disclose pursuant to the Dutch
governmental Decree on Article 10 Takeover Directive
and the governmental Decree on Corporate
Governance. When deemed necessary in the interests
of the Company, deviations from aspects of the
Company’s corporate governance structure are
disclosed in this corporate governance report.
Substantial changes in the Company’s corporate
governance structure and in the Company’s compliance
with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, if any, will
be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders
for discussion under a separate agenda item. The

76

Annual Report 2018

Supervisory Board and the Board of Management,
which are responsible for the corporate governance
structure of the Company, are of the opinion that the
principles and best practice provisions of the Dutch
Corporate Governance Code that are addressed to the
Board of Management and the Supervisory Board are
being applied.

9.1 Board of Management and Executive
Committee
Introduction
The Board of Management is entrusted with the
management of the Company. Certain key officers have
been appointed to manage the Company together with
the Board of Management, allowing functions,
businesses and markets to be represented at the
highest levels in the company. The members of the
Board of Management and these key officers together
constitute the Executive Committee. For practical
purposes, the Executive Committee has adopted a
division of responsibilities that indicates the functional
and business areas monitored and reviewed by the
individual members. In this corporate governance
report, wherever the Executive Committee is
mentioned, this also includes the Board of
Management, unless the context requires otherwise.
Under the chairmanship of the President/Chief
Executive Officer (CEO), the members of the Executive
Committee drive the Company’s management agenda
and share responsibility for the continuity of the Philips
Group, focusing on long-term value creation and taking
into account the interests of shareholders and other
stakeholders. For a description of the other
responsibilities and tasks of the Executive Committee
please refer to the Rules of Procedure of the Board of
Management and the Executive Committee which are
published on the Company’s website.
In compliance with the Dutch Corporate Governance
Code, the Annual Report addresses the strategy and
culture of Philips aimed at long-term value creation.
Philips' strategy is described in more detail in Strategy
and Businesses, starting on page 6. Here, reference is
also made to the Philips Business System, a collection
of best practices and global processes that provide a
framework for continuous improvement and operational
excellence, with the aim of delivering on the Company’s
mission and vision and ensuring success is repeatable.
As set out on Social performance, starting on page 38,
Philips promotes a behavior and competency-driven
growth and performance culture, which is anchored by
the integrity norms described in the Philips General
Business Principles (GBP). The Message from the CEO,
starting on page 3 explains how the Company’s strategy
was executed in 2018; in this regard, please refer also to
Financial performance, starting on page 21.

Corporate governance 9.1

The Board of Management remains accountable for the
actions and decisions of the Executive Committee and
has ultimate responsibility for the Company’s
management and external reporting. It is also
answerable to the Company's shareholders at the
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
All resolutions of the Executive Committee are adopted
by majority vote comprising the majority of the
members of the Board of Management present or
represented, such majority comprising the vote of the
CEO. The Board of Management retains the authority
to, at all times and in all circumstances, adopt
resolutions without the participation of the other
members of the Executive Committee. In discharging its
duties, the Executive Committee shall be guided by the
interests of the Company and its affiliated enterprise,
taking into consideration the interests of the Company’s
stakeholders.
The Executive Committee is supervised by the
Supervisory Board and shall provide the latter with all
the information it needs to fulfill its own responsibilities.
Major decisions of the Board of Management and
Executive Committee require the approval of the
Supervisory Board; these include decisions concerning
(a) the operational and financial objectives of the
Company, (b) the strategy designed to achieve these
objectives, (c) if necessary, the parameters to be applied
in relation to the strategy and (d) corporate social
responsibility issues that are relevant to the Company.
The Executive Committee follows the Rules of
Procedure of the Board of Management and Executive
Committee, which set forth procedures for meetings,
resolutions and minutes.

(Term of) Appointment, composition and
conflicts of interest
Members of the Board of Management as well as the
CEO are appointed by the General Meeting of
Shareholders upon a binding recommendation drawn
up by the Supervisory Board after consultation with the
CEO. This binding recommendation may be overruled
by a resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders
adopted by a simple majority of the votes cast and
representing at least one-third of the issued share
capital. If a simple majority of the votes cast is in favor
of the resolution to overrule the binding
recommendation, but such majority does not represent
at least one-third of the issued share capital, a new
meeting may be convened at which the resolution may
be passed by a simple majority of the votes cast,
regardless of the portion of the issued share capital
represented by such majority. In the event that a
binding recommendation has been overruled, a new
binding recommendation shall be submitted to the
General Meeting of Shareholders. If such second
binding recommendation has been overruled, the
General Meeting of Shareholders shall be free to
appoint a board member.

Members of the Board of Management and the CEO are
appointed for a term of four years, it being understood
that this term expires at the end of the General Meeting
of Shareholders to be held in the fourth year after the
year of their appointment or, if applicable, until a later
retirement date or other contractual termination date in
the fourth year, unless the General Meeting of
Shareholders resolves otherwise. The same applies in
the case of re-appointment, which is possible for
consecutive terms of four years. Members may be
suspended by the Supervisory Board and by the
General Meeting of Shareholders and dismissed by the
latter. Individual data on the members of the Board of
Management and Executive Committee are published
in Board of Management and Executive Committee,
starting on page 5.
The other members of the Executive Committee are
appointed, suspended and dismissed by the CEO,
subject to approval by the Supervisory Board.
Candidates for appointment to the Board of
Management and the Executive Committee are
selected taking into account the Company’s Diversity
Policy for the Supervisory Board, the Board of
Management and the Executive Committee (effective
December 31, 2017, and published on the Company’s
website). As also addressed in the Diversity Policy,
Dutch legislation on board diversity provides that the
Company must pursue a policy of having at least 30%
of the seats on the Board of Management held by men
and at least 30% of these seats held by women. For
more details on the Diversity Policy and board diversity
please refer to Report of the Corporate Governance and
Nomination & Selection Committee, starting on page
66.
A member of the Board of Management requires the
approval of the Supervisory Board before they can
accept a position as a member of a supervisory board
or a position as a non-executive director on a one-tier
board (Non-Executive Directorship) at another
company. The Supervisory Board must be notified of
other important positions (to be) held by a member of
the Board of Management. Dutch legislation provides
for certain limitations on the number of Non-Executive
Directorships a member of the Board of Management
may hold. No such board member shall hold more than
two Non-Executive Directorships at ‘large’ companies
(naamloze vennootschappen or besloten
vennootschappen) or ‘large’ foundations (stichtingen),
as defined under Dutch law, and no member of the
Board of Management shall hold the position of
chairman of another one-tier board or the position of
chairman of another supervisory board. In order for a
company or foundation to be regarded as 'large', it must
meet at least two of the following criteria: (i) the value of
the assets according to the balance sheet with
explanatory notes, considering the acquisition or
manufacturing price, exceeds EUR 20 million; (ii) the net
turnover exceeds EUR 40 million; or (iii) the average
number of employees equals or exceeds 250. During
the financial year 2018 all members of the Board of

Annual Report 2018

77

Corporate governance 9.1

Management complied with the limitations described
above in this paragraph.
Dutch legislation on conflicts of interest provides that a
member of the Board of Management may not
participate in the adoption of resolutions if he or she
has a direct or indirect personal conflict of interest with
the Company or related enterprise. If all members of the
Board of Management have a conflict of interest, the
resolution concerned will be considered by the
Supervisory Board. The Company’s corporate
governance includes rules to specify situations in which
a potential or actual conflict may exist, to avoid such
conflicts of interest as much as possible, and to deal
with such conflicts should they arise. The Company's
rules on conflicts of interest apply to the members of
the Executive Committee.
Relevant matters relating to conflicts of interest, if any,
must be disclosed in the Annual Report for the financial
year in question. No such matters, however, have
occurred during the financial year 2018.

Amount and composition of the
remuneration of the Board of Management
The remuneration of the individual members of the
Board of Management is determined by the
Supervisory Board on the proposal of the Remuneration
Committee of the Supervisory Board, taking into
account the policy thereon as adopted by the General
Meeting of Shareholders.
Pursuant to Dutch legislation, the implementation of the
remuneration policy during the financial year must be
included as a separate agenda item in the convening
notice for a General Meeting of Shareholders and must
be dealt with before the meeting can proceed to
consider and adopt the Annual Accounts.
The current Remuneration Policy applicable to the
Board of Management was adopted at the Annual
General Meeting of Shareholders held in 2017 and is
published on the Company’s website. Deviations from
elements of the remuneration policy in extraordinary
circumstances, when deemed necessary in the interests
of the Company, will be disclosed in the Annual Report
or, in the case of an appointment, in good time prior to
the appointment of the person concerned.
A full and detailed description of the composition of the
remuneration of the individual members of the Board of
Management is included in Report of the Remuneration
Committee, starting on page 68.
All members of the Board of Management are engaged
by means of a services agreement (overeenkomst van
opdracht), as Dutch legislation prohibits a member of
the Board of Management from being employed by
means of a contract of employment. In the event of the
appointment or re-appointment of a member of the
Board of Management, the main elements of the
services agreement - including the amount of the fixed
base compensation, the structure and amount of the
variable compensation component, any severance plan,
78

Annual Report 2018

pension arrangements and the general performance
criteria - shall be made public no later than at the time
of issuance of the notice convening the General
Meeting of Shareholders in which a proposal for (re-)
appointment of that member of the Board of
Management has been placed on the agenda. In
compliance with the Dutch Corporate Governance
Code, the term of the services agreement of the
members of the Board of Management is set at four
years and, in the event of termination, severance
payment is limited to a maximum of one year’s base
compensation. From 2003 until 2013, Philips maintained
a Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTI Plan) consisting of a
mix of restricted share rights and stock options for
members of the Board of Management, Philips
executives and other key employees. Since the full
revision in 2013 of the LTI Plan applicable to members
of the Board of Management, the plan consists of
performance shares only, with cliff-vesting three years
after the date of grant, dependent upon the
achievement of certain performance conditions. For
more details please refer to Report of the Remuneration
Committee , starting on page 68.
Pursuant to Dutch legislation, the Supervisory Board is
authorized to change unpaid bonuses awarded to
members of the Board of Management if payment or
delivery of the bonus would be unacceptable according
to the principles of reasonableness and fairness. The
Company, which in this respect may also be
represented by the Supervisory Board or a special
representative appointed for this purpose by the
General Meeting of Shareholders, may also claim
repayment of bonuses paid or delivered insofar as
these have been granted on the basis of incorrect
information on the fulfillment of the relevant
performance criteria or other conditions. Bonuses are
broadly defined as ‘non-fixed’ remuneration - either in
cash or in the form of share-based compensation - that
is conditional in whole or in part on the achievement of
certain targets or the occurrence of certain
circumstances. The explanatory notes to the balance
sheet shall report on any moderation and/or claim for
repayment of board remuneration. No such moderation
or claim for repayment has occurred during the financial
year 2018.
Members of the Board of Management hold shares in
the Company for the purpose of long-term investment
and are required to refrain from short-term transactions
in Philips securities. According to the Philips Rules of
Conduct with respect to Trading in Royal Philips
Securities, members of the Board of Management are
only allowed to trade in Philips securities (including the
exercise of stock options) during ‘windows’ of twenty
business days following the publication of annual and
quarterly results (provided the person involved has no
‘inside information’ regarding Philips at that time, unless
an exemption is available). Furthermore, the Rules of
Procedure of the Board of Management and Executive
Committee contain provisions concerning ownership of
and transactions in non-Philips securities by members
of the Board of Management. Members of the Board of
Management are prohibited from trading, directly or

Corporate governance 9.1

indirectly, in securities of any of the companies
belonging to the peer group, during one week
preceding the disclosure of Philips’ annual or quarterly
results. The rules referred to above apply to all
members of the Executive Committee. Transactions in
shares in the Company carried out by members of the
Board of Management and members of the Supervisory
Board are reported to the Netherlands Authority for the
Financial Markets (AFM) in accordance with the
European Market Abuse Regulation and, if necessary, to
other relevant authorities.

Indemnification of members of the Board of
Management and Supervisory Board
Unless the law provides otherwise, the members of the
Board of Management and of the Supervisory Board
shall be reimbursed by the Company for various costs
and expenses, such as the reasonable costs of
defending claims, as formalized in the Articles of
Association. Under certain circumstances, described in
the Articles of Association, such as an act or failure to
act by a member of the Board of Management or a
member of the Supervisory Board that can be
characterized as intentional (opzettelijk), intentionally
reckless (bewust roekeloos) or seriously culpable
(ernstig verwijtbaar), there will be no entitlement to this
reimbursement unless the law or the principles of
reasonableness and fairness require otherwise. The
Company has also taken out liability insurance (D&O Directors & Officers) for the persons concerned.
In line with regulatory requirements, the Company’s
policy forbids personal loans to and guarantees on
behalf of members of the Board of Management or the
Supervisory Board. No such loans were granted and no
such guarantees were issued in 2018, nor were any
loans or guarantees outstanding as of December 31,
2018.
The aggregate share ownership of the members of the
Board of Management and the Supervisory Board
represents less than 1% of the outstanding ordinary
shares in the Company.

Risk management approach
Risk management and control forms an integral part of
the Philips business planning and performance review
cycle. The Company’s risk and control policy is designed
to provide reasonable assurance that objectives are met
by integrating risk assessment in the strategic planning
process, integrating management control into the daily
operations, ensuring compliance with legal
requirements and safeguarding the integrity of the
Company’s financial reporting and its related
disclosures. The Executive Committee identifies risks
and determines the risk appetite and appropriate risk
responses related to the achievement of business
objectives and critical business processes. The
Executive Committee reports on and accounts for
internal risk management and control systems to the
Supervisory Board and its Audit Committee. Risk factors
and the risk management approach, as well as the
sensitivity of the Company’s results to external factors
and variables, are described in more detail in Risk

management, starting on page 50. Significant changes
and improvements in the Company’s risk management
and internal control system have been discussed with
the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee and the
external auditor and are also disclosed in Risk
management, starting on page 50.
With respect to financial reporting, a structured selfassessment and monitoring process is used companywide to assess, document, review and monitor
compliance with Internal Controls over Financial
Reporting. Any deficiencies noted in the design and
operating effectiveness of Internal Controls over
Financial Reporting which were not completely
remediated are evaluated at year-end by the Board of
Management. On the basis thereof, the Board of
Management confirms that: (i) the management report
(within the meaning of section 2:391 of the Dutch Civil
Code) provides sufficient insights into any failings in the
effectiveness of the internal risk management and
control systems; (ii) such systems provide a reasonable
level of assurance that the financial reporting does not
contain any material inaccuracies; (iii) based on the
current state of affairs, it is justified that the financial
reporting is prepared on a going concern basis; and (iv)
the management report states those material risks and
uncertainties that are relevant to the expected
continuity of the company for a period of twelve
months after the preparation of the report. The financial
statements fairly represent the financial condition and
result of operations of the Company and provide the
required disclosures.
It should be noted that the above does not imply that
the internal risk management and control systems
provide certainty as to the realization of operational
and financial business objectives, nor can they prevent
all misstatements, inaccuracies, errors, fraud or noncompliances with rules and regulations.
In view of the above, the Board of Management
believes that it is in compliance with the requirements
of recommendation 1.4.2 of the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code. The above statement on internal
controls should not be construed as a statement in
response to the requirements of section 404 of the US
Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The statement as to compliance
with section 404 is set forth on Management’s report on
internal control.
In addition to the Philips General Business Principles
(GBP), the Company has a Financial Code of Ethics
which additionally applies to designated senior
executives, including the CEO and the CFO, and to the
senior management in the Philips Finance Leadership
Team who head the Finance departments of the
Company. The GBP and the Financial Code of Ethics are
published on the Company’s website.
The Company, through the Supervisory Board’s Audit
Committee, also has appropriate procedures in place
for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints
received by the Company regarding accounting, internal
accounting controls or auditing matters and the
Annual Report 2018

79

Corporate governance 9.2

confidential, anonymous submission by employees of
concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing
matters. The Company’s whistleblower mechanisms
furthermore allow employees and, since May 2015,
external parties to confidentially and anonymously
report grievances to the Company, also on topics other
than questionable accounting or auditing matters. The
Company does not tolerate retaliation against internal
whistleblowers who report a concern in good faith.
More information on GBP governance and our
whistleblower procedures can be found on
Sustainability statements and Risk management.
In view of the requirements under the US Securities
Exchange Act, procedures are in place to enable the
CEO and the CFO to provide certifications with respect
to the Annual Report on Form 20-F.
There is a Disclosure Committee that advises the Board
of Management and various officers and departments
involved on the timely review, publication and filing of
periodic and current financial and non-financial reports.
In addition to the certification by the CEO and the CFO
under US law, under Dutch law each individual member
of the Board of Management and the Supervisory
Board must sign the Group and Company financial
statements being disclosed and submitted to the
General Meeting of Shareholders for adoption. If one or
more of their signatures is missing, this shall be stated,
and the reasons for this given. The members of the
Board of Management issue the responsibility
statement referred to in Group financial statements, as
required by Dutch company law and securities law.

9.2 Supervisory Board
Introduction
The Supervisory Board supervises the Board of
Management, the Executive Committee and the general
course of business of Philips, and advises the executive
management thereon. In the two-tier corporate
structure under Dutch law, the Supervisory Board is a
separate body that is independent of the Board of
Management. Its independent character is also
reflected in the requirement that members of the
Supervisory Board can be neither a member of the
Board of Management nor an employee of the
company. The Supervisory Board considers all its
members to be independent under the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code and, in respect of the members of its
Audit Committee under the applicable US rules.
Acting in the interests of both the Company and the
Group and taking into account the relevant interests of
the Company’s stakeholders, the Supervisory Board
supervises and advises the Board of Management and
Executive Committee in performing their management
tasks and setting the direction of the Group’s business,
including (a) the Group’s performance, (b) the Group’s
view on long-term value creation, (c) the Group’s culture
aimed at long-term value creation, (d) the Group’s
general strategy aimed at long-term value creation and
the risks connected to its business activities, (e) the
operational and financial objectives, (f) the parameters
80

Annual Report 2018

to be approved in relation to the strategy, (g) corporate
social responsibility issues, (h) the structure and
management of the systems of internal business
controls and risk management, (i) the financial reporting
process, (j) the compliance with applicable laws and
regulations, also including the internal reporting
systems on such compliance and the adequate followup thereof, (k) the Company/shareholder relationship,
(l) the corporate governance structure of the Company
and (m) senior management staffing, including
succession planning. The Group’s strategy and major
management decisions are discussed with and
approved by the Supervisory Board. For a description of
the other responsibilities and tasks of the Supervisory
Board please refer to the Supervisory Board’s Rules of
Procedure on the Company’s website.
In the Supervisory Board report, the Supervisory Board
describes the composition and functioning of the
Supervisory Board and its committees, the activities of
the board and its committees in the financial year 2018,
the number of committee meetings held and the main
items discussed. Please refer to Supervisory Board
report, starting on page 62.
The Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board are
published on the Company’s website. These rules set
forth the Supervisory Board’s governance rules
governing meetings, items to be discussed, resolutions,
appointment and re-election, committees, conflicts of
interest, trading in securities, and the profile of the
Supervisory Board. The Rules of Procedure also include
the charters of the Board’s committees, to which the
plenary Supervisory Board, while retaining overall
responsibility, has assigned certain tasks: the Corporate
Governance and Nomination & Selection Committee,
the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and
the Quality & Regulatory Committee. Each committee
reports to, and submits its minutes for information to
the Supervisory Board.

(Term of) Appointment, composition and
conflicts of interest
The Supervisory Board consists of at least five members
(currently nine), including a Chairman, and a ViceChairman and Secretary. The Dutch ‘large company
regime’ does not apply to the Company itself. Members
are currently appointed by the General Meeting of
Shareholders for fixed terms of four years, upon a
binding recommendation from the Supervisory Board.
According to the Company’s Articles of Association, this
binding recommendation may be overruled by a
resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders
adopted by a simple majority of the votes cast and
representing at least one-third of the issued share
capital. If a simple majority of the votes cast is in favor
of the resolution to overrule the binding
recommendation, but such majority does not represent
at least one-third of the issued share capital, a new
meeting may be convened. At this new meeting the
resolution may be passed by a simple majority of the
votes cast, regardless of the portion of the issued share
capital represented by such majority. In the event that a

Corporate governance 9.2

binding recommendation has been overruled, a new
binding recommendation shall be submitted to the
General Meeting of Shareholders. If such second
binding recommendation has been overruled, the
General Meeting of Shareholders shall be free to
appoint a board member.
There is no age limit applicable. Members are eligible
for re-appointment for a fixed term of four years once,
and may subsequently be re-appointed for a period of
two years, which appointment may be extended by at
most two years. The report of the Supervisory Board
must state the reasons for any re-appointment beyond
an eight-year period. The dates on which the
Supervisory Board members have been (re-)appointed
are published on the Company’s website.
Candidates for appointment to the Supervisory Board
are selected, taking into account the Diversity Policy. As
also addressed in the Diversity Policy, Dutch legislation
on board diversity provides that the Company must
pursue a policy of having at least 30% of the seats on
the Supervisory Board held by men and at least 30% by
women. The Supervisory Board’s composition
furthermore follows the profile included in the Rules of
Procedure of the Supervisory Board. For more details
on the Diversity Policy and board diversity please refer
to Supervisory Board report, starting on page 62.
The Chairman of the Supervisory Board is independent,
as determined in accordance with the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code. Furthermore, the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code sets forth certain limitations on the
number of non-independent members of the
Supervisory Board, and its committees. As mentioned in
the introduction to this section, the Supervisory Board
considers all its members to be independent under the
Dutch Corporate Governance Code and, in respect of
the members of its Audit Committee under the
applicable US rules.
The Supervisory Board is assisted by the secretary
within the meaning of best practice provision 2.3.10 of
the Dutch Corporate Governance Code (the
“Secretary”). The Secretary ensures that correct
procedures are followed and that the Supervisory Board
acts in accordance with its statutory obligations and its
obligations under the Articles of Association.
Furthermore, the Secretary assists the Chairman of the
Supervisory Board in the actual organization of the
affairs of the Supervisory Board (information, agenda,
evaluation, introductory program) and is the contact
person for interested parties who want to make
concerns known to the Supervisory Board. The
Secretary shall be appointed by, and may be dismissed
by the Board of Management, subject to the approval
of the Supervisory Board.
Individual data on the members of the Supervisory
Board are published in the Annual Report, and updated
on the Company’s website. Members may be
suspended and dismissed by the General Meeting of
Shareholders. In the event of inadequate performance,
structural incompatibility of interests, and in other

instances in which resignation is deemed necessary in
the opinion of the Supervisory Board, the Supervisory
Board shall submit to the General Meeting of
Shareholders a proposal to dismiss the respective
member of the Supervisory Board.
After their appointment, all members of the Supervisory
Board follow an introductory program, which covers
general financial and legal affairs, financial reporting by
the Company, any specific aspects that are unique to
the Company, its business activities and its culture, and
the responsibilities of a Supervisory Board member. Any
need for further training or education of members will
be reviewed annually, also on the basis of an annual
evaluation survey.
Dutch legislation provides that no member of the
Supervisory Board shall hold more than five NonExecutive Directorships at ‘large’ companies or
foundations as defined under Dutch law (see Board of
Management and Executive Committee, starting on
page 76), with a position as chairman counting for two.
During the financial year 2018 all members of the
Supervisory Board complied with the limitations on
Non-Executive Directorships described above.
Dutch legislation on conflicts of interest provides that a
member of the Supervisory Board may not participate
in the adoption of resolutions if he or she has a direct or
indirect personal conflict of interest with the Company
or a related enterprise. If all members of the Supervisory
Board have a conflict of interest, the resolution
concerned must be considered by the General Meeting
of Shareholders. The Company’s corporate governance
includes rules to specify situations in which a (potential)
conflict may exist, to avoid (potential) conflicts of
interest as much as possible, and to deal with such
conflicts should they arise.
Relevant matters relating to conflicts of interest, if any,
must be mentioned in the Annual Report for the
financial year in question. No decisions to enter into
material transactions in which there are conflicts of
interest with members of the Supervisory Board were
taken during the financial year 2018.

Meetings of the Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board meets at least six times per year,
including a meeting on strategy. On the advice of its
Audit Committee, the Supervisory Board, also discusses,
at least once a year, the main risks facing the business,
the result of the assessment of the structure and
operation of the internal risk management and control
systems, as well as any significant changes thereto. The
members of the Executive Committee attend the
meetings of the Supervisory Board, except those
meetings relating to matters such as the desired profile,
composition and competence of the Supervisory Board
and the Executive Committee, as well as the
remuneration and performance of individual members
of the Executive Committee and the conclusions to be
drawn on the basis thereof. In addition to these items,
the Supervisory Board, being responsible for the quality
of its own performance, discusses, at least once a year
Annual Report 2018

81

Corporate governance 9.2

on its own, without the members of the Executive
Committee being present: (i) both its own functioning
and that of the individual members, and the
conclusions to be drawn on the basis thereof, as well as
(ii) both the functioning of the Board of Management
and that of the individual members, and the
conclusions to be drawn on the basis thereof. The CEO
and other members of the Executive Committee meet
on a regular basis with the Chairman and other
members of the Supervisory Board. The Executive
Committee is required to keep the Supervisory Board
informed of all facts and developments concerning
Philips that the Supervisory Board may need to be
aware of in order to function as required and to properly
carry out its duties. The Executive Committee is also
required to consult the Supervisory Board on important
matters and to submit certain important decisions to it
for its prior approval. The Supervisory Board and its
individual members each have a responsibility to
request from the Executive Committee and the external
auditor all information that the Supervisory Board
needs in order to be able to carry out its duties properly
as a supervisory body. If the Supervisory Board
considers it necessary, it may obtain information from
officers and external advisers of the Company. The
Company provides the necessary means for this
purpose. The Supervisory Board may also require that
certain officers and external advisers attend its
meetings.

The Chairman of the Supervisory Board
The responsibilities of the Supervisory Board’s
Chairman include those recommended in the Dutch
Corporate Governance Code. Amongst others, the
Chairman will ensure that: (a) the Supervisory Board has
proper contact with the Board of Management, (b) there
is sufficient time for deliberation and decision-making
by the Supervisory Board, (c) the members of the
Supervisory Board receive all information that is
necessary for the proper performance of their duties in
a timely fashion, (d) the Supervisory Board and its
committees function properly, (e) the functioning of
individual members of the Board of Management and
of the Supervisory Board is assessed at least annually,
(f) any material misconduct and irregularities (or
suspicion thereof) are reported to the Supervisory
Board without delay, (g) the shareholder meetings
proceed in an orderly and efficient manner, and (h)
effective communication with shareholders is assured.
The Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board shall
deputize for the Chairman when the occasion arises.
The Vice-Chairman shall act as the point of contact for
individual members of the Supervisory Board or the
Board of Management concerning the functioning of
the Chairman of the Supervisory Board.

Remuneration of the Supervisory Board and
share ownership
The remuneration of the individual members of the
Supervisory Board, as well as the additional
remuneration of its Chairman and the members of its
committees, is determined by the General Meeting of
Shareholders. The remuneration of a Supervisory Board
82

Annual Report 2018

member is not dependent on the results of the
Company. Further details are published on
Remuneration of the Supervisory Board, starting on
page 73
Shares or rights to shares shall not be granted to a
Supervisory Board member. In accordance with the
Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board, any
shares in the Company held by a Supervisory Board
member are long-term investments. The Supervisory
Board has adopted a policy on ownership of and
transactions in non-Philips securities by members of
the Supervisory Board. This policy is included in the
Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board.

The Corporate Governance and Nomination
& Selection Committee
The Corporate Governance and Nomination & Selection
Committee consists of at least the Chairman and ViceChairman of the Supervisory Board. The Committee
reviews the corporate governance principles applicable
to the Company at least once a year, and advises the
Supervisory Board on any changes to these principles
that it deems appropriate. It also (a) draws up selection
criteria and appointment procedures for members of
the Supervisory Board, the Board of Management and
the Executive Committee; (b) periodically assesses the
Diversity Policy for the Supervisory Board, the Board of
Management and the Executive Committee, the size
and composition of the Supervisory Board, the Board of
Management and the Executive Committee, and makes
proposals for a composition profile of the Supervisory
Board, if appropriate; (c) periodically assesses the
functioning of individual members of the Supervisory
Board, the Board of Management and the Executive
Committee, and reports on this to the Supervisory
Board. The Committee also consults with the CEO and
the Executive Committee on candidates to fill vacancies
on the Supervisory Board, the Board of Management
and the Executive Committee, and advises the
Supervisory Board on the candidates for appointment.
It further supervises the policy of the Executive
Committee on the selection criteria and appointment
procedures for Philips Executives.

The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice a
year and is responsible for preparing decisions of the
Supervisory Board on the remuneration of individual
members of the Board of Management and the
Executive Committee.
The Remuneration Committee prepares an annual
remuneration report. The remuneration report contains
an account of the manner in which the remuneration
policy has been implemented in the past financial year,
as well as an overview of the implementation of the
remuneration policy planned by the Supervisory Board
for the next year(s). The Supervisory Board aims to have
appropriate experience available within the
Remuneration Committee. No more than one member
of the Remuneration Committee shall be an executive
board member of another Dutch listed company.

Corporate governance 9.2

In performing its duties and responsibilities, the
Remuneration Committee is assisted by an external
consultant and an in-house remuneration expert acting
on the basis of a protocol to ensure that the expert acts
on the instructions of the Remuneration Committee and
on an independent basis in which conflicts of interest
are avoided.

In reviewing the Company’s annual and interim
statements, including non-financial information, and
advising the Supervisory Board on internal control
policies and internal audit programs, the Audit
Committee reviews matters relating to accounting
policies, compliance with accounting standards and
compliance with statutory and legal requirements and
regulations, particularly in the financial domain.

The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee, which currently consists of four
members of the Supervisory Board, meets at least four
times a year, before the publication of the annual, semiannual and quarterly results. The composition of the
Audit Committee meets the relevant requirements
under Dutch law and the applicable US rules. All of the
members are considered to be independent and
financially literate and the Audit Committee as a whole
has the competence relevant to the sector in which the
Company is operating. In addition, Jackson Tai and
David Pyott are each designated as an Audit Committee
financial expert, as defined under the regulations of the
US Securities and Exchange Commission. The
Supervisory Board considers the expertise and
experience available in the Audit Committee, in
conjunction with the possibility to take advice from
internal and external experts and advisors, to be
sufficient for the fulfillment of the tasks and
responsibilities of the Audit Committee. The Audit
Committee may not be chaired by the Chairman of the
Supervisory Board or by a (former) member of the
Board of Management.
The tasks and functions of the Audit Committee are
described in the committee’s charter, which is published
on the Company’s website as part of the Rules of
Procedure of the Supervisory Board. These tasks and
functions include the duties recommended in the Dutch
Corporate Governance Code, as well as the duties
imposed by applicable US regulations. More specifically,
the Audit Committee assists the Supervisory Board in
fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for the integrity of
the Company’s financial statements, the financial
reporting process, the effectiveness (also in respect of
the financial reporting process) of the system of internal
business controls and risk management, the internal
and external audit process, the internal and external
auditor’s qualifications, independence and
performance, as well as the Company’s process for
monitoring compliance with laws and regulations and
the General Business Principles (GBP). The Audit
Committee reports its findings to the Supervisory Board,
and submits recommendations to ensure the integrity of
the financial reporting process.
The Audit Committee reviews the Company’s annual
and interim financial statements, including nonfinancial information, prior to publication and advises
the Supervisory Board on the adequacy and
appropriateness of internal control policies and internal
audit programs and their findings. It also reports to the
Supervisory Board the most important points of
discussion between the external auditor and the Board
of Management on the draft management letter and
the draft annual report.

Important findings and identified risks are examined
thoroughly by the Audit Committee in order to allow
appropriate measures to be taken. With regard to the
internal audit, the Audit Committee, in cooperation with
the external auditor, reviews the internal audit charter,
audit plan, audit scope and its coverage in relation to
the scope of the external audit, staffing, independence
and the organizational structure of the internal audit
function. Decisions by the Board of Management
regarding the appointment and removal of the internal
auditor are subject to the approval of the Audit
Committee.
With regard to the external audit, the Audit Committee
(among other responsibilities) reviews the proposed
audit scope (including the main risks of the reporting
process), approach and fees, the independence of the
external auditor, its performance and its (re-)
appointment (or dismissal), audit and permitted nonaudit services provided by the external auditor in
conformity with the Philips Policy on Auditor
Independence, as well as any changes to this policy.
The Audit Committee also considers the report of the
external auditor with respect to the annual financial
statements and the auditor's report on internal control.
The Audit Committee acts as the principal contact for
the external auditor if the auditor discovers irregularities
in the content of the financial reports. It also advises on
the Supervisory Board’s statement to shareholders in
the annual accounts. The Audit Committee periodically
discusses the Company’s policy on business controls,
the GBP and the deployment thereof, overviews on tax,
IT and IT security, litigation and legal proceedings,
environmental exposures, financial exposures in the
area of treasury, real estate, pensions, and the Group’s
major areas of risk. In general, the Company’s external
auditor attends the Audit Committee meetings.

The Quality & Regulatory Committee
The Quality & Regulatory Committee has been
established by the Supervisory Board in view of the
central importance of the quality of the Company’s
products, systems, services and software as well as the
development, testing, manufacturing, marketing and
servicing thereof, and the regulatory requirements
relating thereto. The Quality & Regulatory Committee
assists the Supervisory Board in fulfilling its oversight
responsibilities in this area, whilst recognizing that the
Audit Committee assists the Supervisory Board in its
oversight of other areas of regulatory, compliance and
legal matters.
The Quality & Regulatory Committee consists of at least
two members and meets as often as is necessary or
desirable for the performance of its duties.
Annual Report 2018

83

Corporate governance 9.3

9.3 General Meeting of Shareholders
Introduction
The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is held
every year to discuss the Annual Report, including the
report of the Board of Management, the annual
financial statements with explanatory notes thereto and
additional information required by law, as well as the
Supervisory Board report, any proposal concerning
dividends or other distributions, the (re-)appointment of
members of the Board of Management and Supervisory
Board (if any), important management decisions as
required by Dutch law, and any other matters proposed
by the Supervisory Board, the Board of Management or
shareholders in accordance with the provisions of the
Company’s Articles of Association. The Annual Report,
the financial statements and other regulated
information such as is defined in the Dutch Act on
Financial Supervision (Wet op het financieel toezicht),
will solely be published in English. As a separate
agenda item and in accordance with Dutch law, the
General Meeting of Shareholders discusses the
discharge of the members of the Board of Management
and the Supervisory Board from responsibility for the
performance of their respective duties in the preceding
financial year. However, this discharge only covers
matters that are known to the Company and the
General Meeting of Shareholders when the resolution is
adopted. General Meetings of Shareholders are held in
Eindhoven, Amsterdam, Rotterdam, The Hague, Utrecht
or Haarlemmermeer (including Schiphol Airport). The
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is held no later
than six months after the end of the financial year.
Meetings are convened by public notice, via the
Company’s website or other electronic means of
communication, and registered shareholders are
notified by letter or by the use of electronic means of
communication, at least 42 days prior to a meeting.
Extraordinary General Meetings of Shareholders may
be convened by the Supervisory Board or the Board of
Management if deemed necessary and must be held if
shareholders jointly representing at least 10% of the
outstanding share capital make a written request to that
effect to the Supervisory Board and the Board of
Management, specifying in detail the business to be
dealt with. The agenda of a meeting shall contain such
business as may be placed thereon by the Board of
Management or the Supervisory Board, and agenda
items will be explained in writing where necessary. The
agenda shall list which items are for discussion and
which items are to be voted upon.
Material amendments to the Articles of Association and
resolutions for the appointment of members of the
Board of Management and Supervisory Board shall be
submitted separately to the General Meeting of
Shareholders, it being understood that amendments
and other proposals that are connected in the context
of a proposed (part of the) governance structure may be
submitted as one proposal. In accordance with the
Articles of Association and Dutch law, requests from
shareholders for items to be included on the agenda
will generally be honored, subject to the Company’s
84

Annual Report 2018

rights to refuse to include the requested agenda item
under Dutch law, provided that such requests are made
in writing at least 60 days before a General Meeting of
Shareholders to the Board of Management and the
Supervisory Board by shareholders representing at least
1% of the Company’s outstanding capital or, according
to the official price list of Euronext Amsterdam,
representing a value of at least EUR 50 million. Written
requests may be submitted electronically and shall
comply with the procedure stipulated by the Board of
Management, which procedure is posted on the
Company’s website.
Pursuant to Dutch legislation, shareholders requesting
an item to be included on the agenda of a meeting have
an obligation to disclose their full economic interest (i.e.
long position and short position) to the Company. The
Company has the obligation to publish such disclosures
on its website.

Main powers of the General Meeting of
Shareholders
All outstanding shares carry voting rights. The main
powers of the General Meeting of Shareholders are to
appoint, suspend and dismiss members of the Board of
Management and the Supervisory Board, to adopt the
annual accounts, to declare dividends, to discharge the
Board of Management and the Supervisory Board from
responsibility for the performance of their respective
duties for the previous financial year, to appoint the
external auditor as required by Dutch law, to adopt
amendments to the Articles of Association and
proposals to dissolve or liquidate the Company, to issue
shares or rights to shares, to restrict or exclude preemptive rights of shareholders and to repurchase or
cancel outstanding shares. Following common
corporate practice in the Netherlands, each year the
Company requests limited authorization to issue (rights
to) shares, to restrict or exclude pre-emptive rights and
to repurchase shares. In compliance with Dutch law,
decisions of the Board of Management that are so farreaching that they would greatly change the identity or
nature of the Company or the business require the
approval of the General Meeting of Shareholders. This
includes resolutions to: (a) transfer the business of the
Company, or almost the entire business of the
Company, to a third party; (b) enter into or discontinue
long-term cooperation by the Company or a subsidiary
with another legal entity or company or as a fully liable
partner in a limited partnership or ordinary partnership,
if this cooperation or its discontinuation is of material
significance to the Company; or (c) acquire or dispose of
(at the level of the Company or one of its subsidiaries) a
participating interest in the capital of a company to the
value of at least one-third of the amount of the assets
according to the consolidated balance sheet and notes
thereto as published in the last adopted annual
accounts of the Company. Thus the Company applies
principle 4.1 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code
within the framework of the Articles of Association and
Dutch law and in the manner described in this corporate
governance report.

Corporate governance 9.4

The Board of Management and Supervisory Board are
also accountable, at the Annual General Meeting of
Shareholders, for the policy on the additions to reserves
and dividends (the level and purpose of the additions to
reserves, the amount of the dividend and the type of
dividend). This subject is dealt with and explained as a
separate agenda item at the Annual General Meeting of
Shareholders. A resolution to pay a dividend is dealt
with as a separate agenda item at the General Meeting
of Shareholders.
The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board
are required to provide the General Meeting of
Shareholders with all requested information, unless this
would be prejudicial to an overriding interest of the
Company. If the Board of Management and the
Supervisory Board invoke an overriding interest in
refusing to provide information, the reasons for this
must be given. If a serious private bid is made for a
business unit or a participating interest and the value of
the bid exceeds a certain threshold (currently one-third
of the amount of the assets according to the
consolidated balance sheet and notes thereto as
published in the last adopted annual accounts of the
Company), and such bid is made public, the Board of
Management shall, at its earliest convenience, make
public its position on the bid and the reasons for this
position.
A resolution to dissolve the Company or change its
Articles of Association can be adopted at a General
Meeting of Shareholders by at least three-quarters of
the votes cast, on condition that more than half of the
issued share capital is represented at this meeting. If the
requisite share capital is not represented, a further
meeting to which no quorum requirement applies shall
be convened and held within eight weeks of the first
meeting. Furthermore, the resolution requires the
approval of the Supervisory Board. If the resolution is
proposed by the Board of Management, an absolute
majority of votes is required in order for the resolution
to be adopted and no quorum requirement applies to
the meeting.

Repurchase and issue of (rights to) shares
At the 2018 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders it
was resolved to authorize the Board of Management,
subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, to
acquire shares in the Company within the limits of the
Articles of Association and within a certain price range
up to and including November 2, 2019. The maximum
number of shares the company may hold will not
exceed 10% of the issued share capital as of May 3,
2018. The number of shares may be increased by 10% of
the issued capital as of that same date in connection
with the execution of share repurchase programs for
capital reduction programs.
In addition, at the 2018 Annual General Meeting of
Shareholders it was resolved to authorize the Board of
Management, subject to the approval of the
Supervisory Board, to issue shares or to grant rights to
acquire shares in the Company as well as to restrict or
exclude the pre-emption right accruing to shareholders

up to and including November 2, 2019. This
authorization is limited to a maximum of 10% of the
number of shares issued as of May 3, 2018.

9.4 Meeting logistics and other
information
Introduction
Pursuant to Dutch law, the record date for the exercise
of voting rights and rights relating to General Meetings
of Shareholders is set as the 28th day prior to the day of
the meeting. Shareholders registered on such date are
entitled to attend the meeting and to exercise the other
shareholder rights (in the meeting in question)
notwithstanding subsequent sale of their shares
thereafter. This date will be published in advance of
every General Meeting of Shareholders.
Information which is required to be published or
deposited pursuant to the provisions of company law
and securities law applicable to the Company and
which is relevant to the shareholders, is placed and
updated on the Company’s website, or hyperlinks are
established. The Board of Management and
Supervisory Board shall ensure that the General
Meeting of Shareholders is informed of facts and
circumstances relevant to proposed resolutions in
explanatory notes to the agenda and, if deemed
appropriate, by means of a ‘shareholders' circular’
published on the Company’s website.
Resolutions adopted by the General Meeting of
Shareholders shall be recorded by a civil law notary and
co-signed by the chairman of the relevant meeting;
such resolutions shall also be published on the
Company’s website within 15 days after the meeting.
Upon request, a draft summary of the discussions
during a General Meeting of Shareholders, in the
language of the meeting, is made available to
shareholders no later than three months after the
meeting. Shareholders shall have the opportunity to
respond to this summary for three months, after which a
final summary is adopted by the chairman of the
meeting in question. Such final summary shall be made
available on the Company’s website.

Registration, attending meetings and proxy
voting
Holders of common shares who wish to exercise the
rights attached to their shares in respect of a General
Meeting of Shareholders are required to register for
such meeting. Shareholders may attend a meeting in
person, or may grant a power of attorney to a third
party to attend the meeting and to vote on their behalf.
Holders of common shares in bearer form will also be
able to give voting instructions via the internet
(assuming the agenda for such meeting includes voting
items). In addition, the Company will distribute a voting
instruction form for a General Meeting of Shareholders.
By giving voting instructions via the internet or by
returning the form, shareholders grant power to an
independent proxy holder who will vote according to
the instructions expressly given on the voting instruction
form. Other persons entitled to vote shall also be given
Annual Report 2018

85

Corporate governance 9.4

the possibility to give voting proxies or instructions to an
independent third party prior to the meeting. Details on
registration for meetings, attendance and proxy voting
will be included in the notice convening a General
Meeting of Shareholders.

Preference shares and the Stichting
Preferente Aandelen Philips
As a means to protect the Company and its
stakeholders against an unsolicited attempt to obtain
(de facto) control of the Company, in 1989 the General
Meeting of Shareholders adopted amendments to the
Company’s Articles of Association that allow the Board
of Management and the Supervisory Board to issue
(rights to) preference shares to a third party. As a result,
Stichting Preferente Aandelen Philips (the Foundation)
was created, which was granted the right to acquire
preference shares in the Company. The mere
notification that the Foundation wishes to exercise its
rights, should a third party ever seem likely in the
judgment of the Foundation to obtain (de facto) control
of the Company, will result in the preference shares
being effectively issued. The Foundation may exercise
this right for as many preference shares as there are
ordinary shares in the Company outstanding at that
time. No preference shares have been issued as of
December 31, 2018. In addition, the Foundation has the
right to file a petition with the Enterprise Chamber of
the Amsterdam Court of Appeal to commence an
inquiry procedure within the meaning of section 2:344
Dutch Civil Code.
The object of the Foundation is to represent the
interests of the Company, the enterprises maintained by
the Company and its affiliated companies within the
Group, in such a way that the interests of Philips, these
enterprises and all parties involved with them are
safeguarded as effectively as possible, and that they are
afforded maximum protection against influences which,
in conflict with those interests, may undermine the
autonomy and identity of Philips and those enterprises,
and also to do anything related to the above ends or
conducive to them. In the event of (an attempt at) a
hostile takeover or other attempt to obtain (de facto)
control of the Company, this arrangement will allow the
Company and its Board of Management and
Supervisory Board to determine its position in relation
to the third party and its plans, to seek alternatives and
to defend Philips’ interests and those of its stakeholders
from a position of strength. The members of the selfelecting Board of the Foundation are Messrs J.M.
Hessels, F.J.G.M. Cremers and P.N. Wakkie. No Philips
Supervisory Board or Board of Management members
or Philips officers are represented on the board of the
Foundation.
The Company does not have any other anti-takeover
measures in the sense of other measures which
exclusively or almost exclusively have the purpose of
frustrating future public bids for the shares in the capital
of the Company in case no agreement is reached with
the Board of Management on such public bid.

86

Annual Report 2018

Furthermore, the Company does not have measures
which specifically have the purpose of preventing a
bidder who has acquired 75% of the shares in the
capital of the Company from appointing or dismissing
members of the Board of Management and
subsequently amending the Articles of Association of
the Company. It should be noted that also in the event
of (an attempt at) a hostile takeover or other attempt to
obtain (de facto) control of the Company, the Board of
Management and the Supervisory Board are authorized
to exercise in the interests of Philips all powers vested in
them.

Annual financial statements
The annual financial statements are prepared by the
Board of Management and reviewed by the Supervisory
Board upon the advice of its Audit Committee, taking
into account the report of the external auditor. Upon
approval by the Supervisory Board, the accounts are
signed by all members of both the Board of
Management and the Supervisory Board and are
published together with the opinion of the external
auditor. The Board of Management is responsible,
under the supervision of the Supervisory Board, for the
quality and completeness of such publicly disclosed
financial reports. The annual financial statements are
presented for discussion and adoption at the Annual
General Meeting of Shareholders, to be convened
subsequently. Under US securities regulations, the
Company files its Annual Report separately on Form
20-F, incorporating major parts of the Annual Report as
prepared under the requirements of Dutch law.

Internal controls and disclosure policies
Comprehensive internal procedures, compliance with
which is supervised by the Supervisory Board, are in
place for the preparation and publication of the Annual
Report, the annual accounts, the quarterly figures and
ad hoc financial information. Monitoring of Internal
Controls over Financial Reporting takes place via annual
independent testing (by an external service provider) of
the internal controls over financial reporting and
disclosure controls and procedures required under
applicable US law, quarterly internal control reviews and
bi-annual self-assessment procedures. In addition,
ongoing monitoring by business and finance
management takes place as part of their daily
supervision and management.
As part of these procedures, a Disclosure Committee
has been appointed by the Board of Management to
oversee the Company’s disclosure activities and to
assist the Board of Management in fulfilling its
responsibilities in this respect. The Committee’s purpose
is to ensure that the Company implements and
maintains internal procedures for the timely collection,
evaluation and disclosure, as appropriate, of
information potentially subject to public disclosure
under the legal, regulatory and stock exchange
requirements to which the Company is subject. Such
procedures are designed to capture information that is
relevant to an assessment of the need to disclose
developments and risks that pertain to the Company’s
various businesses. The effectiveness of these

Corporate governance 9.5

procedures for this purpose will be reviewed
periodically.

auditor must be independent of the Company both in
fact and appearance.

Auditor information

The Auditor Policy specifies certain audit services and
audit-related services (also known as assurance
services) that will or may be provided by the external
auditor, and includes rules for the pre-approval by the
Audit Committee of such services. Audit services must
be pre-approved on the basis of the annual audit
services engagement agreed with the External Auditor.
Proposed audit-related services may be pre-approved
at the beginning of the year by the Audit Committee
(annual pre-approval) or may be pre-approved during
the year by the Audit Committee in respect of a
particular engagement (specific pre-approval). The
annual pre-approval is based on a detailed, itemized
list of services to be provided, which is designed to
ensure that there is no management discretion in
determining whether a service has been approved, and
to ensure that the Audit Committee is informed of each
of the services it is pre-approving. Unless pre-approval
with respect to a specific service has been given at the
beginning of the year, each proposed service requires
specific pre-approval during the year. Any annually preapproved services where the fee for the engagement is
expected to exceed pre-approved cost levels or
budgeted amounts will also require specific preapproval. The term of any annual pre- approval is 12
months from the date of the pre-approval unless the
Audit Committee states otherwise. During 2018, there
were no services provided to the Company by the
external auditor which were not pre-approved by the
Audit Committee.

In accordance with the procedures laid down in the
Philips Auditor Policy and as mandatorily required by
Dutch law, the external auditor of the Company is
appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders on
the proposal of the Supervisory Board, after the latter
has been advised by the Audit Committee and the
Board of Management. Under this Auditor Policy, the
Supervisory Board and the Audit Committee assess the
functioning of the external auditor. The main
conclusions of this assessment are communicated to
the General Meeting of Shareholders for the purpose of
assessing the nomination for the appointment of the
external auditor.
The current auditor of the Company, Ernst & Young
Accountants LLP (EY), was appointed at the 2015
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, for a term of
four years starting January 1, 2016. Mrs. S.D.J.
Overbeek-Goeseije is the current partner of EY in
charge of the audit duties for Philips. The agenda for
the upcoming 2019 Annual General Meeting of
Shareholders will include a proposal to re-appoint EY
as external auditor of the Company.
In general, the external auditor attends the meetings of
the Audit Committee. The findings of the external
auditor, the audit approach and the risk analysis are
also discussed at these meetings. The external auditor
attends the meeting of the Supervisory Board at which
the external auditor’s report on the audit of the annual
accounts is discussed, and at which the annual
accounts are approved. In its audit report on the annual
accounts to the Board of Management and the
Supervisory Board, the external auditor refers to the
financial reporting risks and issues that were identified
during the audit, internal control matters, and any other
matters, as appropriate, that it is required to
communicate in accordance with the auditing standards
generally accepted in the Netherlands and the US.
The partner of the external auditor in charge of the
audit duties for Philips will attend the Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders. Questions may be put to him/
her at the meeting about his/her report. The Board of
Management and the Audit Committee of the
Supervisory Board are required to report to the
Supervisory Board on their dealings with the external
auditor on an annual basis, particularly with regard to
the auditor’s independence. The Supervisory Board
shall take this into account when deciding upon its
nomination for the appointment of an external auditor.

Auditor policy
Dutch law requires the separation of audit and nonaudit services, meaning the Company’s external auditor
is not allowed to provide non-audit services. This is
reflected in the Auditor Policy, which is published on the
Company’s website. The policy is also in line with (and
in some ways stricter than) US Securities and Exchange
Commission rules under which the appointed external

9.5 Investor Relations
Introduction
The Company is continually striving to improve relations
with its shareholders. In addition to communication with
its shareholders at a General Meeting of Shareholders,
Philips elaborates upon its financial results during
conference calls, which are broadly accessible. It
publishes informative annual, semi-annual and
quarterly reports and press releases, and informs
investors via its extensive website. The Company is strict
in its compliance with applicable rules and regulations
on fair and non-selective disclosure and equal
treatment of shareholders.
From time to time the Company communicates with
investors via road shows, broker conferences and a
Capital Markets Day, which are announced in advance
on the Company’s website. The purpose of these
engagements is to further inform the market of the
results, strategy and decisions made, as well as to
receive feedback from shareholders. Shareholders can
follow the meetings and presentations organized by the
Company in real time, by means of webcasting or
telephone lines. Thus the Company applies
recommendation 4.2.3 of the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code, which in its perception and in view of
market practice does not extend to less important
analyst meetings and presentations. It is Philips’ policy
to post presentations to analysts and shareholders on
Annual Report 2018

87

Corporate governance 9.5

the Company’s website. These meetings and
presentations will not take place shortly before the
publication of annual, semi-annual and quarterly
financial information.
Furthermore, the Company engages in bilateral
communications with investors. These take place either
at the initiative of the Company or at the initiative of
investors. The Company is generally represented by its
Investor Relations department during these interactions,
however, on a limited number of occasions the Investor
Relations department is accompanied by one or more
members of the senior management. The subject
matter of the bilateral communications ranges from
individual queries from investors to more elaborate
discussions following disclosures that the Company has
made, such as its annual and quarterly reports. Also
here, the Company is strict in its compliance with
applicable rules and regulations on fair and nonselective disclosure and equal treatment of
shareholders.
The Company shall not, in advance, assess, comment
upon or correct, other than factually, any analyst’s
reports or valuations. No fee will be paid by the
Company to any party for carrying out research for the
purpose of analysts’ reports or for the production or
publication of analysts’ reports, with the exception of
credit-rating agencies.

Major shareholders and other information for
shareholders
The Dutch Act on Financial Supervision imposes an
obligation on persons holding certain interests to
disclose (inter alia) percentage holdings in the capital
and/or voting rights in the Company when such
holdings reach, exceed or fall below 3, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25,
30, 40, 50, 60, 75 and 95 percent (as a result of an
acquisition or disposal by a person, or as a result of a
change in the company’s total number of voting rights
or capital issued). Certain derivatives (settled in kind or
in cash) are also taken into account when calculating
the capital interest. The statutory obligation to disclose
capital interest relates not only to gross long positions,
but also to gross short positions. Required disclosures
must be made to the Netherlands Authority for the
Financial Markets (AFM) without delay. The AFM then
notifies the Company of such disclosures and includes
them in a register which is published on the AFM’s
website. Furthermore, an obligation to disclose (net)
short positions is set out in the EU Regulation on Short
Selling.
The AFM register shows the following notification of
substantial holdings and/or voting rights at or above the
3% threshold: BlackRock, Inc.: substantial holding of
5.03% and 6.19% of the voting rights (January 5, 2017);
Capital Research and Management Company / Capital
Group International Inc.: 3.03 % of the voting rights
(November 30, 2018). The AFM register also shows a
notification by Philips of a substantial holding of 4.14%
in its own share capital (no voting rights).

88

Annual Report 2018

As per December 31, 2018, approximately 93% of the
common shares were held through the system of
Euroclear (Euroclear shares) and approximately 7% of
the common shares were represented by New York
Registry Shares issued in the name of approximately
1,034 holders of record, including Cede & Co. Cede & Co
acts as nominee for The Depository Trust Company
holding the shares (indirectly) for individual investors as
beneficiaries. Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas
is the New York transfer agent, registrar and dividend
disbursing agent.
Only Euroclear shares are traded on the stock market of
Euronext Amsterdam. Only New York Registry Shares
are traded on the New York Stock Exchange. Pursuant
to Section 10:138(2) of the Dutch Civil Code, the laws of
the State of New York are applicable to the proprietary
regime with respect to the New York Registry Shares,
which proprietary regime includes the requirements for
a transfer of, or the creation of an in rem right in, such
New York Registry Shares. Euroclear shares and New
York Registry Shares may be exchanged for each other.
Since certain shares are held by brokers and other
nominees, these numbers may not be representative of
the actual number of United States beneficial holders or
the number of Shares of New York Registry beneficially
held by US residents.
The provisions applicable to all USD denominated
corporate bonds issued by the Company in March 2008
and March 2012 (due 2022, 2038 and 2042) contain a
‘Change of Control Triggering Event’. If the Company
were to experience such an event with respect to a
series of corporate bonds, the Company might be
required to offer to purchase the bonds that are still
outstanding at a purchase price equal to 101% of their
principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if
any.
Furthermore, the conditions applicable to the EUR
denominated corporate bonds issued in 2017 (due 2019
and 2023) and 2018 (due 2024 and 2028) contain a
similar provision (‘Change of Control Put Event’). Upon
the occurrence of such an event, the Company might be
required to redeem or purchase any of such bonds at
their principal amount together with interest accrued.

Corporate seat and head office
The statutory seat of the Company is Eindhoven, the
Netherlands, and the statutory list of all subsidiaries
and affiliated companies, prepared in accordance with
the relevant legal requirements (Dutch Civil Code, Book
2, Sections 379 and 414), forms part of the notes to the
consolidated financial statements and is deposited at
the office of the Commercial Register in Eindhoven, the
Netherlands (file no. 17001910).
The executive offices of the Company are located at the
Philips Center, Amstelplein 2, 1096 BC Amsterdam, the
Netherlands, telephone +31-20-59 77 777.

Corporate governance 9.5

Compliance with the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code
In accordance with the governmental Decree of August
29, 2017, the Company fully complies with the Dutch
Corporate Governance Code and applies all its
principles and best practice provisions that are
addressed to the Board of Management or the
Supervisory Board. The full text of the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code can be found on the website of the
Monitoring Commission Corporate Governance Code
(www.commissiecorporategovernance.nl).

Annual Report 2018

89

Other information 10

10 Other information
10.1 Reconciliation of non-IFRS information
In this Annual Report Philips presents certain financial
measures when discussing Philips’ performance that are
not measures of financial performance or liquidity
under IFRS (‘non-IFRS’). These non-IFRS measures
(also known as non-GAAP or alternative performance
measures) are presented because management
considers them important supplemental measures of
Philips’ performance and believes that they are widely
used in the industry in which Philips operates as a
means of evaluating a company’s operating
performance and liquidity. Philips believes that an
understanding of its sales performance, profitability,
financial strength and funding requirements is
enhanced by reporting the following non-IFRS
measures:
• Comparable sales growth;
• Adjusted EBITA;
• Adjusted income from continuing operations
attributable to shareholders;
• Adjusted income from continuing operations
attributable to shareholders per common share (in
EUR) - diluted;
• Adjusted EBITDA;
• Free cash flow;
• Net debt : group equity ratio; and
• Comparable order intake.
Non-IFRS measures do not have standardized
meanings under IFRS and not all companies calculate
non-IFRS measures in the same manner or on a
consistent basis. As a result, these measures may not be
comparable to measures used by other companies that
have the same or similar names. Accordingly, undue
reliance should not be placed on the non-IFRS
measures contained in this Annual Report and they
should not be considered as substitutes for sales, net
income, net cash provided by operating activities or
other financial measures computed in accordance with
IFRS.
This chapter contains the definitions of the non-IFRS
measures used in this Annual Report as well as
reconciliations from the most directly comparable IFRS
measures. The non-IFRS measures discussed in this
Annual Report are cross referenced to this chapter.
These non-IFRS measures should not be viewed in
isolation or as alternatives to equivalent IFRS measures
and should be used in conjunction with the most
directly comparable IFRS measures.

90

Annual Report 2018

The non-IFRS financial measures presented are not
measures of financial performance or liquidity under
IFRS, but measures used by management to monitor
the underlying performance of Philips’ business and
operations and, accordingly, they have not been
audited or reviewed by Philips’ external auditors.
Furthermore, they may not be indicative of Philips’
future results and should not be construed as an
indication that Philips’ future results will be unaffected
by exceptional or non-recurring items.

Comparable sales growth
Comparable sales growth represents the period-onperiod growth in sales excluding the effects of currency
movements and changes in consolidation. As indicated
in Significant accounting policies, starting on page 112,
foreign currency sales and costs are translated into
Philips’ presentation currency, the euro, at the exchange
rates prevailing at the respective transaction dates. As a
result of significant foreign currency sales and currency
movements during the periods presented, the effects of
translating foreign currency sales amounts into euros
could have a material impact on the comparability of
sales between periods. Therefore, these impacts are
excluded when presenting comparable sales in euros
by translating the foreign currency sales of the previous
period and the current period into euros at the same
average exchange rates. In addition, the years
presented were affected by a number of acquisitions
and divestments, as a result of which various activities
were consolidated or deconsolidated. The effect of
consolidation changes has also been excluded in
arriving at the comparable sales. For the purpose of
calculating comparable sales, when a previously
consolidated entity is sold or control is lost, relevant
sales for that entity of the corresponding prior year
period are excluded. Similarly, when an entity is
acquired and consolidated, relevant sales for that entity
of the current year period are excluded.
Comparable sales growth is presented for the Philips
Group, operating segments and geographic clusters.
Philips’ believes that the presentation of comparable
sales growth is meaningful for investors to evaluate the
performance of Philips’ business activities over time.
Comparable sales growth may be subject to limitations
as an analytical tool for investors, because comparable
sales growth figures are not adjusted for other effects,
such as increases or decreases in prices or quantity/
volume. In addition, interaction effects between
currency movements and changes in consolidation are
not taken into account.

Other information 10.1

Philips Group
Sales growth composition per segment in %
2016 - 2018
nominal growth

currency effects

consolidation
changes

comparable growth

2018 versus 2017
Diagnosis & Treatment

5.1

4.1

(2.4)

6.8

(2.5)

4.1

(1.3)

0.3

Personal Health

(1.1)

4.4

0.0

3.3

Philips Group

1.9

4.2

(1.4)

4.7

3.5

Connected Care & Health Informatics

2017 versus 2016
Diagnosis & Treatment

3.1

2.0

(1.6)

Connected Care & Health Informatics

0.2

1.9

1.1

3.2

Personal Health

3.0

1.9

0.7

5.6

2.1

1.9

(0.1)

3.9

Diagnosis & Treatment

3.1

0.9

(0.4)

3.6

Connected Care & Health Informatics

4.5

0.1

(0.1)

4.5

Personal Health

5.2

2.0

0.0

7.2

Philips Group

3.7

1.1

0.1

4.9

nominal growth

currency effects

consolidation
changes

comparable growth

Western Europe

4.9

0.4

(2.6)

2.7

North America

(1.1)

4.4

(2.6)

0.7

Philips Group
2016 versus 2015

Philips Group
Sales growth composition per geographic cluster in %
2016 - 2018

2018 versus 2017

Other mature geographies

10.8

4.1

(0.4)

14.5

Total mature geographies

2.5

3.1

(2.3)

3.3

Growth geographies

0.7

6.5

0.4

7.6

Philips Group

1.9

4.2

(1.4)

4.7

2.8

2017 versus 2016
Western Europe

1.2

1.1

0.5

North America

2.1

2.0

(1.4)

2.7

Other mature geographies

(4.7)

2.6

(0.1)

(2.2)

Total mature geographies

0.8

1.7

(0.6)

1.9

Growth geographies

4.8

2.3

0.9

8.0

2.1

1.9

(0.1)

3.9

Philips Group
2016 versus 2015
Western Europe

2.2

1.9

0.2

4.3

North America

3.6

(0.4)

(0.2)

3.0

Other mature geographies

8.9

(6.2)

(0.4)

2.3

Total mature geographies

3.9

(0.5)

(0.1)

3.3

Growth geographies

3.2

4.6

0.6

8.4

Philips Group

3.7

1.1

0.1

4.9

Annual Report 2018

91

Other information 10.1

Adjusted EBITA
The term Adjusted EBITA is used to evaluate the
performance of Philips and its segments. EBITA
represents Income from operations excluding
amortization and impairment of acquired intangible
assets and impairment of goodwill. Adjusted EBITA
represents EBITA excluding gains or losses from
restructuring costs, acquisition-related charges and
other items.
Restructuring costs are defined as the estimated costs
of initiated reorganizations, the most significant of
which have been approved by the Executive
Committee, and which generally involve the
realignment of certain parts of the industrial and
commercial organization.
Acquisition-related charges are defined as costs that
are directly triggered by the acquisition of a company,
such as transaction costs, purchase accounting related
costs and integration-related expenses.
Other items are defined as any individual item with an
income statement impact (loss or gain) that is deemed
by management to be both significant and incidental to
normal business activity. Other items may extend over
several quarters and are not limited to the same
financial year.
Philips considers the use of Adjusted EBITA appropriate
as Philips uses it as a measure of segment performance
and as one of its strategic drivers to increase

92

Annual Report 2018

profitability through re-allocation of its resources
towards opportunities offering more consistent and
higher returns. This is done with the aim of making the
underlying performance of the businesses more
transparent.
Philips believes Adjusted EBITA is useful to evaluate
financial performance on a comparable basis over time
by factoring out restructuring costs, acquisition-related
charges and other incidental items which are not
directly related to the operational performance of
Philips Group or its segments.
Adjusted EBITA may be subject to limitations as an
analytical tool for investors, as it excludes restructuring
costs, acquisition-related charges and other incidental
items and therefore does not reflect the expense
associated with such items, which may be significant
and have a significant effect on Philips’ net income.
Adjusted EBITA margin refers to Adjusted EBITA divided
by sales expressed as a percentage.
Adjusted EBITA is not a recognized measure of financial
performance under IFRS. The reconciliation of Adjusted
EBITA to the most directly comparable IFRS measure,
Net income, for the years indicated is included in the
table below. Net income is not allocated to segments as
certain income and expense line items are monitored
on a centralized basis, resulting in them being shown on
a Philips Group level only.

Other information 10.1

Philips Group
Reconciliation of Net income to Adjusted EBITA in millions of EUR unless otherwise stated
2016 - 2018
Connected Care
Diagnosis &
& Health
Philips Group
Treatment
Informatics

Personal
Health

Other

(105)

2018
Net Income

1,097

Discontinued operations, net of income taxes

213

Income tax expense

193

Investments in associates, net of income taxes
Financial expenses
Financial income
Income from operations
Amortization of intangible assets
EBITA
Restructuring and acquisition-related charges
Other items
Adjusted EBITA

2
264
(51)
1,719

600

179

1,045

347

97

46

126

79

2,066

696

225

1,171

(27)

258

142

59

26

31

41

-

56

18

(33)

2,366

838

341

1,215

(28)

2017
Net Income

1,870

Discontinued operations, net of income taxes

(843)

Income tax expense
Investments in associates, net of income taxes
Financial expenses

349
4
263

Financial income

(126)

Income from operations

1,517

488

206

1,075

(252)

Amortization of intangible assets

260

55

44

135

26

1,787

543

250

1,211

(217)

316

151

91

11

64

50

22

31

2,153

716

372

1,221

(157)

1,464

546

275

953

(310)

242

48

46

139

9
(301)

Impairment of goodwill
EBITA
Restructuring and acquisition-related charges
Other items
Adjusted EBITA

9

9

(3)

2016
Net Income

1,491

Discontinued operations, net of income taxes

(660)

Income tax expense
Investments in associates, net of income taxes
Financial expenses
Financial income
Income from operations
Amortization of intangible assets
Impairment of goodwill
EBITA
Restructuring and acquisition-related charges
Other items
Adjusted EBITA

203
(11)
507
(65)

1

1

1,707

594

322

1,092

94

37

14

16

120
1,921

(12)
631

324

27
132

1,108

Annual Report 2018

(142)

93

Other information 10.1

Adjusted income from continuing operations
attributable to shareholders
The term Adjusted income from continuing operations
attributable to shareholders represents income from
continuing operations less continuing operations noncontrolling interests, amortization and impairment of
acquired intangible assets, impairment of goodwill,
excluding gains or losses from restructuring costs and
acquisition-related charges, other items, adjustments to
net finance expenses, adjustments to investments in
associates and the tax impact of the adjusted items.
Shareholders refers to shareholders of Koninklijke
Philips N.V.
Restructuring costs, acquisition-related charges and
other items are all defined in the Adjusted EBITA section
above.
Net finance expenses are defined as either the financial
income or expense component of an individual item
already identified to be excluded as part of the
Adjusted income from continuing operations, or a
financial income or expense component with an income
statement impact (gain or loss) that is deemed by
management to be both significant and incidental to
normal business activity.
The Tax impact of the adjusted items is calculated using
the Weighted Average Statutory Tax Rate plus any
recurring tax costs or benefits.
Philips considers the use of Adjusted income from
continuing operations attributable to shareholders
appropriate as Philips uses it as the basis for the
Adjusted income from continuing operations
attributable to shareholders per common share (in EUR)
- diluted, a non-IFRS measure.
Adjusted income from continuing operations
attributable to shareholders may be subject to
limitations as an analytical tool for investors, as it
excludes certain items and therefore does not reflect
the expense associated with such items, which may be
significant and have a significant effect on Philips’ net

94

Annual Report 2018

income. Net income, for the years indicated is included
in the table below. Net income is not allocated to
segments as certain income and expense line items are
monitored on a centralized basis, resulting in them
being shown on a Philips Group level only.
Adjusted income from continuing operations
attributable to shareholders is not a recognized
measure of financial performance under IFRS. The
reconciliation of Adjusted income from continuing
operations attributable to shareholders to the most
directly comparable IFRS measure, Net income, for the
years indicated is included in the table below.

Adjusted income from continuing operations
attributable to shareholders per common
share (in EUR) - diluted
Adjusted income from continuing operations
attributable to shareholders per common share (in EUR)
- diluted is calculated by dividing the Adjusted income
from continuing operations attributable to shareholders
by the diluted weighted average number of shares (after
deduction of treasury shares) outstanding during the
period, as defined in Significant accounting policies,
starting on page 112, earnings per share section.
Philips considers the use of Adjusted income from
continuing operations attributable to shareholders per
common share (in EUR) - diluted appropriate as it is a
measure that is useful when comparing its performance
to other companies in the HealthTech industry.
However, it may be subject to limitations as an
analytical tool for investors, as it uses Adjusted income
from continuing operations attributable to shareholders
which has certain items excluded.
Adjusted income from continuing operations
attributable to shareholders per common share (in EUR)
- diluted is not a recognized measure of financial
performance under IFRS. The most directly comparable
IFRS measure, income from continuing operations
attributable to shareholders per common share (in EUR)
- diluted for the years indicated, is included in the table
below.

Other information 10.1

Philips Group
Adjusted income from continuing operations attributable to shareholders 1) in millions of EUR unless otherwise stated
2016-2018
Net income
Less: Discontinued operations, net of income taxes
Income from continuing operations
Less: Continuing operations Non-controlling interest
Income from continuing operations attributable to shareholders

2016

2017

2018

1,491

1,870

1,097

(660)

(843)

213

831

1,028

1,310

(4)

(11)

(7)

827

1,017

1,303

242

260

347

1

9

94

316

120

50

Adjustments for:
Amortization of acquired intangible assets
Impairment of goodwill
Restructuring costs and acquisition-related charges
Other items
Net finance expenses
Tax impact of adjusted items
Adjusted Income from continuing operations attributable to shareholders 2)

94

258
41
57

(225)

(194)

(365)

1,153

1,459

1,643

0.89

1.08

1.39

1.24

1.54

1.76

Earnings per common share:
Income from continuing operations attributable to shareholders per common share
- diluted
Adjusted income from continuing operations attributable to shareholders 1) per
common share - diluted
1)

Shareholders refers to shareholders of Koninklijke Philips N.V.

Annual Report 2018

95

Other information 10.1

Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA is defined as Income from operations
excluding amortization and impairment of intangible
assets, impairment of goodwill, depreciation and
impairment of property, plant and equipment,
restructuring costs, acquisition-related charges and
other items.
Philips understands that Adjusted EBITDA is broadly
used by analysts, rating agencies and investors in their
evaluation of different companies because it excludes
certain items that can vary widely across different
industries or among companies within the same
industry. Philips considers Adjusted EBITDA useful
when comparing its performance to other companies in
the HealthTech industry. However, Adjusted EBITDA
may be subject to limitations as an analytical tool
because of the range of items excluded and their
significance in a given reporting period. Furthermore,
comparisons with other companies may be complicated
due to the absence of a standardized meaning and
calculation framework. Our management compensates
for the limitations of using Adjusted EBITDA by using

96

Annual Report 2018

this measure to supplement IFRS results to provide a
more complete understanding of the factors and trends
affecting the business rather than IFRS results alone. In
addition to the limitations noted above, Adjusted
EBITDA excludes items that may be recurring in nature
and should not be disregarded in the evaluation of
performance. However, we believe it is useful to exclude
such items to provide a supplemental analysis of
current results and trends compared to other periods.
This is because certain excluded items can vary
significantly depending on specific underlying
transactions or events. Also, the variability of such items
may not relate specifically to ongoing operating results
or trends and certain excluded items, while potentially
recurring in future periods and may not be indicative of
future results. A reconciliation from net income to
Adjusted EBITDA is provided below. Net income, for the
years indicated is included in the table below. Net
income is not allocated to segments as certain income
and expense line items are monitored on a centralized
basis, resulting in them being shown on a Philips Group
level only.

Other information 10.1

Philips Group
Reconciliation of Net income to Adjusted EBITDA in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018

Philips Group

Diagnosis &
Treatment

Connected
Care & Health
Informatics

Personal
Health

Other

2018
Net Income

1,097

Discontinued operations, net of income taxes

213

Income tax expense

193

Investments in associates, net of income taxes
Financial expenses
Financial income

2
264
(51)

Income from operations

1,719

600

179

1,045

(105)

Depreciation, amortization and impairment of
assets

1,089

302

176

367

244

Restructuring and acquisition-related charges

258

142

59

26

31

41

-

56

18

(33)

Other items
Adding back impairment of fixed assets
included in restructuring and acquisitionrelated changes and other items
Adjusted EBITDA

(15)

(7)

(9)

-

1

3,093

1,036

462

1,456

139

2017
Net Income

1,870

Discontinued operations, net of income taxes

(843)

Income tax expense
Investments in associates, net of income taxes
Financial expenses

349
4
263

Financial income

(126)

Income from operations

1,517

488

206

1,075

(252)

Depreciation, amortization and impairment of
assets

1,025

267

208

371

179

316

151

91

11

64

50

22

31

Impairment of goodwill
Restructuring and acquisition-related charges
Other items
Adding back impairment of fixed assets
included in restructuring and acquisitionrelated changes and other items
Adjusted EBITDA

9

9
(3)

(86)

(44)

(34)

(1)

(7)

2,832

884

502

1,456

(11)

1,464

546

275

953

(310)

976

229

184

385

178

2016
Net Income

1,491

Discontinued operations, net of income taxes

(660)

Income tax expense
Investments in associates, net of income taxes
Financial expenses
Financial income
Income from operations
Depreciation, amortization and impairment of
assets
Impairment of goodwill
Restructuring and acquisition-related charges
Other items
Adding back impairment of fixed assets
included in restructuring and acquisitionrelated changes and other items
Adjusted EBITDA

203
(11)
507
(65)

1
94

1
37

120

14

16

(12)

27
132

(42)

(4)

(4)

(0)

(34)

2,613

808

458

1,353

(7)

Annual Report 2018

97

Other information 10.1

Free cash flow
Free cash flow is defined as net cash flows from operating activities minus net capital expenditures. Net capital
expenditures are comprised of the purchase of intangible assets, expenditures on development assets, capital
expenditures on property, plant and equipment and proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment.
Philips discloses free cash flow as a supplemental non-IFRS financial measure, as Philips believes it is a meaningful
measure to evaluate the performance of its business activities over time. Philips understands that free cash flow is
broadly used by analysts, rating agencies and investors in assessing its performance. Philips also believes that the
presentation of free cash flow provides useful information to investors regarding the cash generated by the Philips
operations after deducting cash outflows for purchases of intangible assets, capitalization of product development,
expenditures on development assets, capital expenditures on property, plant and equipment and proceeds from disposal
of property, plant and equipment. Therefore, the measure gives an indication of the long-term cash generating ability of
the business. In addition, because free cash flow is not impacted by purchases or sales of businesses and investments, it
is generally less volatile than the total of net cash provided by (used for) operating activities and net cash provided by
(used for) investing activities.
Free cash flow may be subject to limitations as an analytical tool for investors, as free cash flow is not a measure of cash
generated by operations available exclusively for discretionary expenditures and Philips requires funds in addition to
those required for capital expenditures for a wide variety of non-discretionary expenditures, such as payments on
outstanding debt, dividend payments or other investing and financing activities. In addition, free cash flow does not
reflect cash payments that may be required in future for costs already incurred, such as restructuring costs.
Philips Group
Composition of free cash flow in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
2016

2017

2018

Net cash flows from operating activities

1,170

1,870

1,780

Net capital expenditures:

(741)

(685)

(796)

(95)

(106)

(123)

(301)

(333)

(298)

(360)

(420)

(422)

15

175

46

429

1,185

984

Purchase of intangible assets
Expenditures on development assets
Capital expenditures on property, plant and equipment
Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment
Free cash flow

Net debt : group equity ratio
Net debt : group equity ratio is presented to express the financial strength of Philips. Net debt is defined as the sum of
long- and short-term debt minus cash and cash equivalents. Group equity is defined as the sum of shareholders’ equity
and non-controlling interests. This measure is used by Philips Treasury management and investment analysts to evaluate
financial strength and funding requirements. This measure may be subject to limitations because cash and cash
equivalents are used for various purposes, not only debt repayment. The net debt calculation deducts all cash and cash
equivalents whereas these items are not necessarily available exclusively for debt repayment at any given time.
Philips Group
Composition of net debt to group equity in millions of EUR unless otherwise stated
2016 - 2018
Long-term debt
Short-term debt
Total debt

2017

2018

4,044

3,427

1,585

672

1,394

5,606

4,715

4,821
1,688

Cash and cash equivalents

2,334

1,939

Net debt

3,272

2,776

3,132

12,546

11,999

12,088

Shareholders' equity
Non-controlling interests

98

2016
4,021

907

24

29

Group equity

13,453

12,023

12,117

Net debt to group equity ratio

20:80

19:81

21:79

Annual Report 2018

Other information 10.2

Comparable order intake
Comparable order intake is reported for equipment and software and is defined as the total contractually committed
amount to be delivered within a specified timeframe excluding the effects of currency movements and changes in
consolidation. Comparable order intake does not derive from the financial statements and thus a quantitative
reconciliation is not provided.
Philips uses comparable order intake as an indicator of business activity and performance. Comparable order intake is not
an alternative to revenue and may be subject to limitations as an analytical tool due to differences in amount and timing
between booking orders and revenue recognition. Due to divergence in practice, other companies may calculate this or a
similar measure (such as order backlog) differently and therefore comparisons between companies may be complicated.

10.2 Five-year overview
Philips Group
Other financial data in millions of EUR unless otherwise stated
2014-2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

(2)%

16%

4%

2%

2%

0%

4%

5%

4%

5%

Free cash flow 1)

555

(154)

429

1,185

984

PPE - Capital expenditure for the year

528

575

575

551

546

1,458

1,688

1,921

2,153

2,366

10.0%

10.0%

11.0%

12.1%

13.1%

1,178

1,000

1,153

1,459

1,643

Nominal sales growth
Comparable sales growth 1)

Adjusted EBITA 1)
as a % of sales
Adjusted income from continuing operations attributable to KPNV
shareholders 1) 2)
Adjusted income from continuing operations attributable to
shareholders per common share (in EUR) - diluted 1) 2)
Cash and cash equivalents
Net debt: group equity ratio 1)
Market capitalization at year-end

2018

1.28

1.08

1.24

1.54

1.76

1,873

1,766

2,334

1,939

1,688

17:83

25:75

20:80

19:81

21:79

22,082

21,607

26,751

29,212

28,276

1)
Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and reconciliation of the most directly comparable IFRS measure, refer to Reconciliation of nonIFRS information, starting on page 90.
2)

Shareholders refers to shareholders of Koninklijke Philips N.V.

Philips Group
Sustainability
2014-2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

1.93

2.02

2.13

2.22

2.24

Green Revenues, as a % of total sales

56%

58%

60%

64%

Green Innovation, in millions of euros

241

277

233

228

Circular revenue

7%

9%

11%

12%

757

821

847

766

Lives improved, in billions (including Signify)

Operational carbon footprint, in kilotonnes CO2-equivalent

743

2018

Due to factors such as acquisitions and divestments, the amounts, percentages and ratios are not directly comparable.

Annual Report 2018

99

Other information 10.3

Philips Group
Selected financial data in millions of EUR unless otherwise stated
2014-2018
Sales
Income from operations

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

14,517

16,806

17,422

17,780

18,121

461

658

1,464

1,517

1,719

(294)

(359)

(442)

(137)

(213)

Income (loss) from continuing operations

260

160

831

1,028

1,310

Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to shareholders

264

146

788

814

2

Income (loss) from discontinued operations

148

479

660

843

(213)

408

638

1,491

1,870

1,097

412

624

1,448

1,657

1,090

Total assets

28,317

30,943

32,270

25,315

26,019

Net assets

10,933

11,725

13,435

12,023

12,117

4,104

5,760

5,606

4,715

4,821

Financial income and expenses - net

Net income (loss)
Net income (loss) attributable to shareholders

Debt
Provisions

4,517

4,243

3,606

2,059

2,151

10,832

11,607

12,546

11,999

12,088

101

118

907

24

29

basic

915,193

916,087

918,016

928,798

922,987

diluted

922,714

923,625

928,789

945,132

935,851

914,389

917,104

922,437

926,192

914,184

Shareholders’ equity
Non-controlling interests
Weighted average shares outstanding:

Amount of common shares outstanding at year-end
Basic earnings per common share:
Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to shareholders 1)

0.28

0.17

0.90

1.10

1.41

Net income (loss) attributable to shareholders

0.45

0.70

1.58

1.78

1.18
1.39

Diluted earnings per common share:
Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to shareholders 1)

0.28

0.17

0.89

1.08

Net income (loss) attributable to shareholders

0.45

0.70

1.56

1.75

1.16

0.80

0.80

0.80

0.80

0.80

113,678

112,959

114,731

73,951

77,400

Dividend distributed per common share
Total employees at year-end (FTEs)
1)

During 2018, an error was identified in certain non-controlling interests and EPS calculations for 2016 and 2017 respectively. Reference is made
to the Significant accounting policies, starting on page 112.

10.3 Forward-looking statements and
other information
Forward-looking statements
This document contains certain forward-looking
statements with respect to the financial condition,
results of operations and business of Philips and certain
of the plans and objectives of Philips with respect to
these items. Examples of forward-looking statements
include statements made about our strategy, estimates
of sales growth, future developments in Philips’ organic
business, the completion of acquisitions and
divestments and future Adjusted EBITA*). Forwardlooking statements can be identified generally as those
containing words such as “anticipates”, “assumes”,
“believes”, “estimates”, “expects”, “should”, “will”, “will
likely result”, “forecast”, “outlook”, “projects”, “may” or
similar expressions. By their nature, forward-looking
statements involve risk and uncertainty because they
relate to future events and circumstances and there are
many factors that could cause actual results and
developments to differ materially from those expressed
or implied by these forward-looking statements.
These factors include but are not limited to: global
economic and business conditions; political instability,
including developments within the European Union,
with adverse impact on financial markets; the successful

100

Annual Report 2018

implementation of Philips’ strategy and the ability to
realize the benefits of this strategy; the ability to
develop and market new products; changes in
legislation; legal claims; changes in currency exchange
rates and interest rates; future changes in tax rates and
regulations, including trade tariffs; pension costs and
actuarial assumptions; changes in raw materials prices;
changes in employee costs; the ability to identify and
complete successful acquisitions, and to integrate those
acquisitions into the business, the ability to successfully
exit certain businesses or restructure the operations; the
rate of technological changes; cyber-attacks, breaches
of cybersecurity; political, economic and other
developments in countries where Philips operates;
industry consolidation and competition; and the state
of international capital markets as they may affect the
timing and nature of the disposal by Philips of its
remaining interests in Signify (formerly Philips Lighting).
As a result, Philips’ actual future results may differ
materially from the plans, goals and expectations set
forth in such forward-looking statements. For a
discussion of factors that could cause future results to
differ from such forward-looking statements, see also
Risk management, starting on page 50.

Other information 10.4

Third-party market share data
Statements regarding market share, including those
regarding Philips’ competitive position, contained in this
document, are based on outside sources such as
research institutes, industry and dealer panels in
combination with management estimates. Where
information is not yet available to Philips, those
statements may also be based on estimates and
projections prepared by outside sources or
management. Rankings are based on sales unless
otherwise stated.
Fair value information
In presenting the Philips Group’s financial position, fair
values are used for the measurement of various items in
accordance with the applicable accounting standards.
These fair values are based on market prices, where
available, and are obtained from sources that are
deemed to be reliable. Readers are cautioned that
these values are subject to changes over time and are
only valid at the balance sheet date. When quoted
prices or observable market values are not readily
available, fair values are estimated using valuation
models and unobservable inputs, which we believe are
appropriate for their purpose. Such fair value estimates
require management to make significant assumptions
with respect to future developments which are
inherently uncertain and may therefore deviate from
actual developments. Critical assumptions used are
disclosed in the financial statements. In certain cases,
independent valuations are obtained to support
management’s determination of fair values.
IFRS basis of presentation
The audited consolidated financial statements as of
December 31, 2018 and 2017, and for each of the years
in the three-year period ended December 31, 2018 have
been prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by
the European Union (EU). All standards and
interpretations issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB) and the IFRS Interpretations
Committee effective year-end 2018 have been
endorsed by the EU, except that the EU did not adopt
certain paragraphs of IAS 39 applicable to certain
hedge transactions. Philips has no hedge transactions
to which these paragraphs are applicable.
Consequently, the accounting policies applied by
Philips also comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Use of non-IFRS information
In presenting and discussing the Philips Group’s
financial position, operating results and cash flows,
management uses certain non-IFRS financial measures.
These non-IFRS financial measures should not be
viewed in isolation as alternatives to the equivalent
IFRS measure and should be used in conjunction with
the most directly comparable IFRS measures. Non-IFRS
financial measures do not have standardized meaning
under IFRS and therefore may not be comparable to
similar measures presented by other issuers. A
reconciliation of these non-IFRS measures to the most
directly comparable IFRS measures is contained in this

document. Reference is made in Reconciliation of nonIFRS information, starting on page 90, of this report.
Statutory financial statements and management
report
The chapters Group financial statements and Company
financial statements contain the statutory financial
statements of the Company.
The introduction to the chapter Group financial
statements sets out which parts of this Annual Report
form the management report within the meaning of
Section 2:391 of the Dutch Civil Code (and related
Decrees).

10.4 Definitions and abbreviations
Brominated flame retardants (BFR)
Brominated flame retardants are a group of chemicals
that have an inhibitory effect on the ignition of
combustible organic materials. Of the commercialized
chemical flame retardants, the brominated variety are
most widely used.
CO2-equivalent
CO2-equivalent or carbon dioxide equivalent is a
quantity that describes, for a given mixture and amount
of greenhouse gas, the amount of CO2 that would have
the same global warming potential (GWP), when
measured over a specified timescale (generally 100
years).
Circular economy
A circular economy aims to decouple economic growth
from the use of natural resources and ecosystems by
using those resources more effectively. By definition it is
a driver for innovation in the areas of material,
component and product reuse, as well as new business
models such as solutions and services. In a Circular
Economy, the more effective use of materials makes it
possible to create more value, both by cost savings and
by developing new markets or growing existing ones.
Circular Revenues
Circular Revenues are defined by revenues generated
through products and solutions that meet specific
Circular Economy requirements. These include
performance and access-based business models,
refurbished, reconditioned and remanufactured
products and systems, refurbished, reconditioned and
remanufactured components, upgrades or
refurbishment on site or remote, and products
containing at least 30% recycled plastics.
Dividend yield
The dividend yield is the annual dividend payment
divided by Philips’ market capitalization. All references
to dividend yield are as of December 31 of the previous
year.

Annual Report 2018

101

Other information 10.4

Employee Engagement Index (EEI)
The Employee Engagement Index (EEI) is the single
measure of the overall level of employee engagement
at Philips. It is a combination of perceptions and
attitudes related to employee satisfaction, commitment
and advocacy.
Energy-using Products (EuP)
An energy-using product is a product that uses,
generates, transfers or measures energy (electricity, gas,
fossil fuel). Examples include boilers, computers,
televisions, transformers, industrial fans and industrial
furnaces.
Full-time equivalent employee (FTE)
Full-time equivalent is a way to measure a worker’s
involvement in a project. An FTE of 1.0 means that the
person is equivalent to a full-time worker, while an FTE
of 0.5 signals that the worker works half-time.
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a network-based
organization that pioneered the world’s most widely
used sustainability reporting framework. GRI is
committed to the framework’s continuous improvement
and application worldwide. GRI’s core goals include the
mainstreaming of disclosure on environmental, social
and governance performance.
Green Innovation
Green Innovation comprises all R&D activities directly
contributing to the development of Green Products or
Green Technologies.
Green Products
Green Products offer a significant environmental
improvement in one or more Green Focal Areas: Energy
efficiency, Packaging, Hazardous substances, Weight,
Circularity, and Lifetime reliability. The life cycle
approach is used to determine a product’s overall
environmental improvement. It calculates the
environmental impact of a product over its total life
cycle (raw materials, manufacturing, product use and
disposal).
Green Products need to prove leadership in at least one
Green Focal Area compared to industry standards,
which is defined by a segment-specific peer group. This
is done either by outperforming reference products
(which can be a competitor or predecessor product in
the particular product family) by at least 10%, by
outperforming product-specific eco-requirements or by
being awarded with a recognized eco-performance
label. Because of different product portfolios, business
segments have specified additional criteria for Green
Products, including product specific minimum
requirements where relevant.
Green Revenues
Green Revenues are generated through products and
solutions which offer a significant environmental
improvement in one or more of the Green Focal Areas:
Energy efficiency, Packaging, Hazardous substances,

102

Annual Report 2018

Weight, Circularity, and Lifetime reliability. Green
Revenues are determined by classifying the
environmental impact of the product or solution over its
total life cycle.
Philips uses Green Revenues as a measure of social and
economic performance in addition to its environmental
results. The use of this measure may be subject to
limitations as it does not have a standardized meaning
and similar measures could be determined differently
by other companies.
Growth geographies
Growth geographies are the developing geographies
comprising of Asia Pacific (excluding Japan, South
Korea, Australia and New Zealand), Latin America,
Central & Eastern Europe, Middle East & Turkey
(excluding Israel) and Africa.
Hazardous substances
Hazardous substances are generally defined as
substances posing imminent and substantial danger to
public health and welfare or the environment.
Income from operations (EBIT)
Income from operations as reported on the IFRS
consolidated statement of income. The term EBIT
(earnings before interest and tax) has the same
meaning as Income from operations.
Income from continuing operations
Income from continuing operations as reported on the
IFRS consolidated statement of income, which is net
income from continuing operations, or net income
excluding discontinued operations
Lean
The basic insight of Lean thinking is that if every person
is trained to identify wasted time and effort in their own
job and to better work together to improve processes by
eliminating such waste, the resulting enterprise will
deliver more value at less expense.
Lives improved by Philips
To calculate how many lives we are improving, market
intelligence and statistical data on the number of
people touched by the products contributing to the
social or ecological dimension over the lifetime of a
product are multiplied by the number of those products
delivered in a year. After elimination of double counts –
multiple different product touches per individual are
only counted once – the number of lives improved by
our innovative solutions is calculated. We established
our 2012 baseline at 1.6 billion a year.
Mature geographies
Mature geographies are the highly developed markets
comprising of Western Europe, North America, Japan,
South Korea, Israel, Australia and New Zealand.

Other information 10.4

Operational carbon footprint
A carbon footprint is the total set of greenhouse gas
emissions caused by an organization, event, product or
person; usually expressed in kilotonnes CO2-equivalent.
Philips' operational carbon footprint is calculated on a
half-year basis and includes industrial sites
(manufacturing and assembly sites), non-industrial sites
(offices, warehouses, IT centers and R&D facilities),
business travel (lease and rental cars and airplane
travel) and logistics (air, sea and road transport).
Polyvinyl chloride (PVC)
Polyvinyl chloride, better known as PVC or vinyl, is an
inexpensive plastic so versatile it has become
completely pervasive in modern society.
REACH
Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction
of Chemicals (REACH) is a European Union regulation
that addresses the production and use of chemical
substances, and their potential impact on both human
health and the environment.
Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)
The Responsible Business Alliance (formerly known as
The Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC)) was
established in 2004 to promote a common code of
conduct for the electronics and information and
communications technology (ICT) industry. EICC now
includes more than 100 global companies and their
suppliers.
Restriction on Hazardous Substances (RoHS)
The RoHS Directive prohibits all new electrical and
electronic equipment placed on the market in the
European Economic Area from containing lead,
mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls (PBB) or polybrominated
diphenyl ethers (PBDE), except in certain specific
applications, in concentrations greater than the values
decided by the European Commission. These values
have been established as 0.01% by weight per
homogeneous material for cadmium and 0.1% for the
other five substances.

Treatment and Connected Care & Health Informatics
innovation spend. In addition, innovation spend that
contributes to Green Products and healthy living at
Personal Health is included. Finally, innovation spend at
Other that addresses the SDGs 3 and 1 is included.
VOC
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are organic
chemicals that have a high vapor pressure at ordinary
room temperature. Their high vapor pressure results
from a low boiling point, which causes large numbers of
molecules to evaporate or sublimate from the liquid or
solid form of the compound and enter the surrounding
air, a trait known as volatility.
Voluntary turnover
Voluntary turnover covers all employees who resigned
of their own volition.
Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE)
The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive
(WEEE Directive) is the European Community directive
on waste electrical and electronic equipment setting
collection, recycling and recovery targets for all types of
electrical goods. The directive imposes the
responsibility for the disposal of waste electrical and
electronic equipment on the manufacturers of such
equipment.
Weighted Average Statutory Tax Rate (WASTR)
The reconciliation of the effective tax rate is based on
the applicable statutory tax rate, which is a weighted
average of all applicable jurisdictions. This weighted
average statutory tax rate (WASTR) is the aggregation of
the result before tax multiplied by the applicable
statutory tax rate without adjustment for losses, divided
by the group result before tax.

Sustainable Development Goals
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a
collection of 17 global goals set by the United Nations.
The broad goals are interrelated though each has its
own targets. The SDGs cover a broad range of social
and economic development issues. These include
poverty, hunger, health, education, climate change,
water, sanitation, energy, environment and social
justice.
Sustainable Innovation
Sustainable Innovation is the Research & Development
spend related to the development of new generations
of products and solutions that address the United
Nations Sustainable Development Goals 3 (“to ensure
healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages”)
or 12 (“to ensure sustainable consumption and
production patterns”). This includes all Diagnosis &

Annual Report 2018

103

Statements 11

11 Statements
11.1 Group financial statements

share data, fair value information, and revisions and
reclassifications.

Introduction
This section of the Annual Report contains the audited
consolidated financial statements including the notes
thereon that have been prepared in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as
endorsed by the European Union (EU) and with the
statutory provisions of Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil
Code.
All standards and interpretations issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and
the IFRS Interpretations Committee effective 2018 have
been endorsed by the EU, consequently, the accounting
policies applied by Koninklijke Philips N.V. (hereafter the
'company' or 'Philips' also comply with IFRS as issued
by the IASB.
Together with the section Company financial
statements, this section contains the statutory financial
statements of the Company.

The Board of Management of the Company hereby
declares that, to the best of our knowledge, the Group
financial statements and Company financial statements
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities,
financial position and profit or loss of the Company and
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as
a whole and that the management report referred to
above gives a true and fair view concerning the position
as per the balance sheet date, the development and
performance of the business during the financial year of
the Company and the undertakings included in the
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a
description of the principal risks that they face.
Board of Management
Frans van Houten
Abhijit Bhattacharya
Marnix van Ginneken
February 26, 2019

The following sections and chapters:

11.1.1 Management’s report on internal control
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•

How we create value, starting on page 8
Financial performance, starting on page 21
Societal impact, starting on page 38
Risk management, starting on page 50
Supervisory Board report, starting on page 62
Report of the Corporate Governance and
Nomination & Selection Committee, starting on page
66
Report of the Remuneration Committee, starting on
page 68
Corporate governance, starting on page 76
Forward-looking statements and other information,
starting on page 100
Sustainability statements, starting on page 196

form the Management report within the meaning of
section 2:391 of the Dutch Civil Code (and related
Decrees).
The sections Group performance and Segment
performance provide an extensive analysis of the
developments during the financial year 2018 and the
results. These sections also provide information on the
business outlook, investments, financing, personnel and
research and development activities.
For ‘Additional information’ within the meaning of
section 2:392 of the Dutch Civil Code, please refer to
Independent auditor’s report, starting on page 189.
Please refer to Forward-looking statements and other
information, starting on page 100 for more information
about forward-looking statements, third-party market

104

Annual Report 2018

Management’s report on internal control over
financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the US
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
The Board of Management of Koninklijke Philips N.V.
(Royal Philips) is responsible for establishing and
maintaining an adequate system of internal control over
financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rule 13a15
(f) under the US Securities Exchange Act). Internal
control over financial reporting is a process to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our
financial reporting for external purposes in accordance
with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Internal control over financial reporting includes
maintaining records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary for preparation of our financial statements;
providing reasonable assurance that receipts and
expenditures of company assets are made in
accordance with management authorization; and
providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of company assets that
could have a material effect on our financial statements
would be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute
assurance that a misstatement of our financial
statements would be prevented or detected. Also,
projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting to future periods
are subject to the risk that the controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that

Statements 11.1.2

the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.
The Board of Management conducted an assessment
of Royal Philips' internal control over financial reporting
based on the “Internal Control Integrated Framework
(2013)” established by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
Based on the Board of Management’s assessment of
the effectiveness of Royal Philips' internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, it has
concluded that, as of December 31, 2018, Royal Philips'
internal control over Group financial reporting is
considered effective.
The effectiveness of the Royal Philips' internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, as
included in this section Group financial statements, has
been audited by Ernst & Young Accountants LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, as
stated in their report which follows hereafter.
Board of Management
Frans van Houten
Abhijit Bhattacharya
Marnix van Ginneken
February 26, 2019
Changes in internal control over financial reporting
During fiscal year 2018, Royal Philips implemented
internal controls to ensure we have adequately
evaluated our contracts and properly assessed the
impact of the new accounting standards related to
leases in our financial statements to facilitate their
adoption on January 1, 2019.
Other than as explained above, there were no other
changes in our internal control over financial reporting
during 2018 that have materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control
over financial reporting.

11.1.2 Report of the independent auditor
Management’s report on internal control over financial
reporting is set out in Management’s report on internal
control, starting on page 104. The report set out in
section Independent auditor’s report on internal control
over financial reporting, starting on page 105, is
provided in compliance with standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board in the US and
includes an opinion on the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting as at December 31, 2018,
based on COSO criteria.
Ernst & Young Accountants LLP has also issued a report
on the 2018 consolidated financial statements and the
company financial statements, in accordance with
Dutch law, including the Dutch standards on Auditing,
of Koninklijke Philips N.V., which is set out in
Independent auditor’s report, starting on page 189.

Ernst & Young Accountants LLP has also issued a report
on the consolidated financial statements 2017 and 2018
in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board in the US, which
will be included in the Annual Report on Form 20-F
expected to be filed with the US Securities and
Exchange Commission on February 26, 2019.

11.1.3 Independent auditor’s report on internal
control over financial reporting
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm
To: The Supervisory Board and Shareholders of
Koninklijke Philips N.V.
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited Koninklijke Philips N.V.’s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018,
based on criteria established in Internal Control —
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion,
Koninklijke Philips N.V. (the Company) maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on
the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States) ('PCAOB'), the consolidated balance
sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2018 and
2017, the related consolidated statements of income,
comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in
equity for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2018, and the related notes and our
report dated February 26, 2019 expressed an
unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting included in the
accompanying section 'Management’s report on
internal control', of this Annual Report. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting
based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm
registered with the PCAOB and are required to be
independent with respect to the Company in
accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the
applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and
Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects.

Annual Report 2018

105

Statements 11.1.3

Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, assessing the
risk that a material weakness exists, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over
Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company’s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of
the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit

106

Annual Report 2018

preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the company are being
made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (3)
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Ernst & Young Accountants LLP
Amsterdam, the Netherlands
February 26, 2019

Statements 11.1.4

11.1.4 Consolidated statements of income
Philips Group
Consolidated statements of income in millions of EUR unless otherwise stated
For the years ended December 31
6

Sales.
Cost of sales

2016

2017

2018

17,422

17,780

18,121
(9,568)

(9,484)

(9,600)

Gross margin

7,939

8,181

8,554

Selling expenses

(4,142)

(4,398)

(4,500)

General and administrative expenses

(658)

(577)

(631)

Research and development expenses

(1,669)

(1,764)

(1,759)

6

Other business income.

17

152

88

6

Other business expenses.

(23)

(76)

(33)

6

Income from operations.

1,464

1,517

1,719

7

Financial income.

65

126

51

7

Financial expenses.

(507)

(263)

(264)

Investments in associates, net of income taxes

8

11

(4)

(2)

Income before taxes

1,034

1,377

1,503

Income tax expense.

(203)

(349)

(193)

831

1,028

1,310

Income from continuing operations
3

Discontinued operations, net of income taxes.
Net income

660

843

(213)

1,491

1,870

1,097

1,448

1,657

1,090

43

214

7

2017

2018

0.90

1.10

1.41

1.58

1.78

1.18

0.89

1.08

1.39

1.56

1.75

1.16

Attribution of net income
Net income attributable to Koninklijke Philips N.V. shareholders
Net income attributable to non-controlling interests

Philips Group
Earnings per common share attributable to Koninklijke Philips N.V. shareholders in EUR unless otherwise stated
For the years ended December 31
2016
Basic earnings per common share in EUR
Income from continuing operations attributable to shareholders 1)
Net income attributable to shareholders
Diluted earnings per common share in EUR
Income from continuing operations attributable to shareholders 1)
Net income attributable to shareholders
1)

During 2018, an error was identified in certain non-controlling interests and EPS calculations for 2016 and 2017 respectively. Reference is made
to the Significant accounting policies, starting on page 112.

Amounts may not add up due to rounding.

Annual Report 2018

107

Statements 11.1.5

11.1.5 Consolidated statements of comprehensive income
Philips Group
Consolidated statements of comprehensive income in millions of EUR
for the year ended December 31

Net income for the period

2016

2017

2018

1,491

1,870

1,097

20 Pensions and other-post employment plans:.
Remeasurement
8

Income tax effect on remeasurements.

(96)

102

(8)

28

(78)

(19)

Revaluation reserve:
Release revaluation reserve
Reclassification directly into retained earnings

(4)
4

Financial assets fair value through OCI:
Net current-period change, before tax

(147)

Reclassification directly into retained earnings
Total of items that will not be reclassified to Income Statement

(5)
(68)

25

(179)

219

(1,177)

383

2

39

(29)

191

(6)

Currency translation differences:
Net current period change, before tax
8

Income tax effect on net current-period change.
Reclassification adjustment for (gain) loss realized, in discontinued operations

13 Available-for-sale financial assets:.
Net current period change, before tax
8

(44)

Income tax effect on net current-period change.
Reclassification adjustment for loss (gain) realized

(66)
(1)

24

1

Cash flow hedges:
Net current-period change, before tax
8

Income tax effect on net current-period change.
Reclassification adjustment for loss (gain) realized
Total of items that are or may be reclassified to Income Statement
Other comprehensive income for the period
Total comprehensive income for the period

3

33

(9)

(3)

(13)
11

5

(17)

(31)

200

(1,000)

315

132

(975)

136

1,623

895

1,233

1,550

805

1,225

73

90

8

Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Shareholders of Koninklijke Philips N.V.
Non-controlling interests

Amounts may not add up due to rounding.

108

Annual Report 2018

Statements 11.1.6

11.1.6 Consolidated balance sheets
Philips Group
Consolidated balance sheets in millions of EUR unless otherwise stated
As of December 31
2017

2018

Non-current assets
2 10 Property, plant and equipment..
2 11

Goodwill..

2 12 Intangible assets excluding goodwill..
16 Non-current receivables.
5

Investments in associates.

13 Other non-current financial assets.
28 Non-current derivative financial assets.
8

Deferred tax assets.

1,591

1,712

7,731

8,503

3,322

3,589

130

162

142

244

587

360

22

1

1,598

1,828

14 Other non-current assets.

75

47

Total non-current assets

15,198

16,447

2,353

2,674

Current assets
15 Inventories.
13 Current financial assets.
14 Other current assets.
28 Current derivative financial assets.
8

Income tax receivable.

16 25 Current receivables..
3

Assets classified as held for sale.

29 Cash and cash equivalents.
Total current assets
Total assets

2

436

392

469

57

36

109

147

3,909

4,035

1,356

87

1,939

1,688

10,117

9,572

25,315

26,019

11,999

12,088

17 Equity.
Equity
Common shares

188

185

Reserves

385

548

11,426

11,355

Other
17 Non-controlling interests.
Group equity

24

29

12,023

12,117

4,044

3,427

Non-current liabilities
18 Long-term debt.
28 Non-current derivative financial liabilities.

216

114

19 20 Long-term provisions..

1,659

1,788

Deferred tax liabilities.

33

8

152

)
22 Non-current contract liabilities. 1
)
22 Other non-current liabilities. 1

226
474

253

6,426

5,959

18 Short-term debt.

672

1,394

28 Current derivative financial liabilities.

167

176

Total non-current liabilities
Current liabilities

8

Income tax payable.

25 Accounts payable.
)
21 Accrued liabilities. 1

83

118

2,090

2,303

2,319

1,537

)
22 Current contract liabilities. 1

19 20 Short-term provisions..
3

Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale.

)
22 Other current liabilities. 1

1,303
400

363

8

12

1,126

737

Total current liabilities

6,866

7,943

Total liabilities and group equity

25,315

26,019

1)
Due to IFRS 15 adoption, contractual liabilities are shown as separate captions on the balance sheet as of 2018. For more details refer to
the Significant accounting policies, starting on page 112.

Amounts may not add up due to rounding.

Annual Report 2018

109

Statements 11.1.7

11.1.7 Consolidated statements of cash flows
Philips Group
Consolidated statements of cash flows 1) in millions of EUR
For the years ended December 31
2016

2017

2018

Cash flows from operating activities
Net income
Results of discontinued operations, net of income taxes

1,491

1,870

1,097

(660)

(843)

213

1,089

Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating
activities:
Depreciation, amortization, and impairment of fixed assets

976

1,025

Impairment of goodwill and other non-current financial assets

24

15

1

Net gain on sale of assets

(3)

(107)

(71)

Interest income

(43)

(40)

(31)

Interest expense on debt, borrowings, and other liabilities

294

186

165

Income taxes

203

349

193

101

(179)

Investments in associates, net of income taxes
Decrease (increase) in working capital

(11)
131

2

Decrease (increase) in receivables and other current assets

(89)

64

(97)

Decrease (Increase) in inventories

(63)

(144)

(394)

Increase (decrease) in accounts payable, accrued and other current liabilities

283

181

311

(160)

(358)

(49)

(647)

(252)

(271)

Decrease (increase) in non-current receivables, other assets and other
liabilities
19 Increase (decrease) in provisions.
Other items

76

377

37

(296)

(215)

(170)

Interest received

42

40

35

Dividends received from investments in associates

48

6

20

Interest paid

Income taxes paid

(295)

(284)

(301)

Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities

1,170

1,870

1,780

(741)

(685)

(796)

(95)

(106)

(123)

(301)

(333)

(298)

Capital expenditures on property, plant and equipment

(360)

(420)

(422)

Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment.

15

175

46

Cash flows from investing activities
Net capital expenditures
Purchase of intangible assets
Expenditures on development assets

3
23

Net proceeds from (cash used for) derivatives and current financial assets.

(117)

(198)

(175)

23

Purchase of other non-current financial assets.

(53)

(42)

(34)

23

Proceeds from other non-current financial assets.

14

6

77

4

Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired.

(197)

(2,344)

(628)

64

70

(1,092)

(3,199)

(1,486)

Net proceeds from sale of interests in businesses, net of cash disposed of.

3

Net cash provided by (used for) for investing activities
Cash flows from financing activities
18

Proceeds from issuance (payments) of short-term debt.

18

Principal payments on short-term portion of long-term debt.

(1,377)

12

34

(357)

(1,332)

(1,161)

18
17

Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt.

123

1,115

1,287

Re-issuance of treasury shares.

80

227

17

Purchase of treasury shares.

94

(606)

(642)

(1,042)

5
5

Proceeds from sale of Signify (Philips Lighting) shares.

863

1,065

Transaction costs paid for sale of Signify (Philips Lighting) shares.

(38)

17

Dividends paid to shareholders of Koninklijke Philips N.V..

(5)

(330)

(384)

(2)

(2)

(3)

Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities

(1,643)

55

(1,192)

Net cash provided by (used for) continuing operations

(1,566)

(1,274)

(898)

2,151

1,063

647

585

(211)

(251)

Dividends paid to non-controlling interests

3

Net cash provided by (used for) discontinued operations.
Net cash provided by (used for) continuing and discontinued operations
Effect of changes in exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents

(401)

(17)

(184)

-

Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year

1,766

2,334

1,939

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period

2,334

1,939

1,688

1)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. For a number of reasons, principally the effects of
translation differences and consolidation changes, certain items in the statements of cash flows do not correspond to the differences between
the balance sheet amounts for the respective items

Amounts may not add up due to rounding.

110

Annual Report 2018

Statements 11.1.8

11.1.8 Consolidated statements of changes in equity

Co
m
m
on
sh
Re
ar
va
e
lu
at
io
Cu
n
rr
re
en
se
cy
rv
e
tr
an
s
la
Fa
tio
ir
n
va
di
lu
ffe
e
th
re
ro
nc
Ca
ug
es
sh
h
1)
O
flo
C
I 2)
w
he
dg
Ca
es
pi
ta
li
n
ex
ce
Re
ss
ta
of
in
pa
ed
rv
ea
al
rn
ue
in
Tr
gs
ea
su
ry
sh
ar
es
To
at
ta
co
ls
ha
st
re
ho
N
ld
on
er
s'
-c
eq
on
ui
tr
ol
ty
lin
G
ro
g
up
in
te
eq
re
ui
st
ty
s

Philips Group
Consolidated statements of changes in equity in millions of EUR unless otherwise stated
For the year ended December 31

reserves
Balance as of Jan. 1, 2016

186

Total comprehensive income (loss)
Dividend distributed

other

4

1,058

56

12

(4)

191

(20)

(1)

4

IPO Philips Lighting (now Signify)

398
(15)

Cancellation of treasury shares

2,669

(1)

7,985

11,607

118

1,384

1,550

73

(732)

(330)

125

(4)

(446)

Purchase of treasury shares
Re-issuance of treasury shares

(122)

Share call options
Share-based compensation plans

Dividend distributed

1,234

36

10

(823)

(66)

12

2

Sale of shares of Philips Lighting (now
Signify)

(589)

231

74

74

(103)

90

(13)

(13)

119

119

19
1,681

805

90

895

(742)

(384)

(94)

(478)

346

327

712

1,039

(12)

(1,590)

(1,602)

Forward contracts
Share call options

54

392

(30)

188

392
347

Total comprehensive income (loss)
Dividend distributed

334

133

133

(1,018)

(61)

(1,079)

(1,079)

95

(255)

(160)

(160)

151

151

8,596

(34)

23

3,311

8,571

(147)

(33)

(481)

11,970

(181)

(10)

(29)
8

1,233

(3)

(403)

(514)

(514)

(276)

(4)

341

61

61

124

(443)

(319)

(319)

34

(85)

(51)

(51)

(779)

783
107

107

11
739

11,993

1,225

107

185

24

(29)

(400)

(5)

Income tax share-based compensation
plans

12,023

(738)

Share call options
Share-based compensation plans

(8)
24

1,058

Forward contacts

Balance as of Dec. 31, 2018

11,999

336

Purchase of treasury shares

Cancellation of treasury shares

(481)

(25)

Re-issuance of treasury shares

(318)

(8)

3,311

2

13,453

3

23

(4)

907

(318)

(8)
188

12,546

(318)

151

IFRS 9 and 15 adjustment 3)
Balance as of Jan. 1, 2018

(181)

19

356

(205)

Income tax share-based compensation
plans

(589)

8,178

(66)

Share-based compensation plans

825

(589)

Purchase of treasury shares
Re-issuance of treasury shares

716

3,083

(19)

Deconsolidation Philips Lighting (now
Signify)

1,623
(330)

(35)

19
186

Total comprehensive income (loss)

Balance as of Dec. 31, 2017

109

11,725

450

119

Income tax share-based compensation
plans
Balance as of Dec. 31, 2016

(363)

3,487

(514)

11
8,266

(399)

12,088

11
29

12,117

1)
Cumulative translation adjustments related to investments in associates were EUR 45 million at December 31,2018 (2017: EUR 46 million, 2016:
EUR 40 million).
2)

Previously available-for-sale financial assets.

3)

Impact of IFRS 9 and 15 adoption. Reference is made to the Significant accounting policies, starting on page 112

Amounts may not add up due to rounding.

Annual Report 2018

111

Statements 11.1.9

11.1.9 Notes
Notes to the Consolidated financial statements of the
Philips Group
1

Significant accounting policies
The Consolidated financial statements in the Group
financial statements section have been prepared in
accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the European Union
(EU) and with the statutory provisions of Part 9, Book 2
of the Dutch Civil Code.
All standards and interpretations issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and
the IFRS Interpretations Committee effective 2018 have
been endorsed by the EU; consequently, the
accounting policies applied by Philips also comply with
IFRS as issued by the IASB. These accounting policies
have been applied by group entities.
The Consolidated financial statements have been
prepared under the historical cost convention, unless
otherwise indicated.
The Consolidated financial statements are presented in
euros, which is the presentation currency. Due to
rounding, amounts may not add up precisely to the
totals provided.
On February 25, 2019, the Board of Management
authorized the Consolidated financial statements for
issue. The Consolidated financial statements as
presented in this report are subject to adoption by the
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on
May 9, 2019.

112

about future developments may change due to
circumstances beyond the company’s control and are
reflected in the assumptions if and when they occur.
The results of these estimates form the basis for making
judgments about the carrying value of assets and
liabilities as well as identifying and assessing the
accounting treatment with respect to commitments and
contingencies. The company revises material estimates
if changes occur in the circumstances or if there is new
information or experience on which an estimate was or
can be based.
The areas where the most significant judgments and
estimates are made are goodwill, deferred tax asset
recoverability, impairments, classification and
measurement of financial instruments, the accounting
for an arrangement containing a lease, revenue
recognition, tax risks and other contingencies,
assessment of control, classification of assets and
liabilities held for sale and the presentation of items of
profit and loss and cash flows as continuing or
discontinued, as well as when determining the fair
values of acquired identifiable intangible assets,
contingent considerations and investments based on an
assessment of future cash flows (e.g. earn out
arrangements as part of acquisitions). For further
discussion of these significant judgements and
estimates, reference is made to the respective
accounting policies and notes within these
Consolidated financial statements that relate to the
above topics.

Use of estimates
The preparation of the Consolidated financial
statements in conformity with IFRS requires
management to make judgments, estimates and
assumptions that affect the application of accounting
policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
income and expenses. These estimates inherently
contain a degree of uncertainty. Actual results may
differ from these estimates under different assumptions
or conditions.

Further judgment is applied when analyzing
impairments of goodwill and intangible assets not yet
ready for use that are performed annually and
whenever a triggering event has occurred to determine
whether the carrying value exceeds the recoverable
amount. These analyses are generally based on
estimates of discounted future cash flows. Furthermore,
the company applies judgment when actuarial
assumptions are established to anticipate future events
that are used in calculating post-employment benefit
expenses and liabilities. These factors include
assumptions with respect to interest rates, rates of
increase in healthcare costs, rates of future
compensation increases, turnover rates and life
expectancy.

In the process of applying the accounting policies,
management has made estimates and assumptions
concerning the future and other key sources of
estimation uncertainty at the reporting date that have a
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities within the
next financial year, as well as to the disclosure of
contingent liabilities at the date of the Consolidated
financial statements, and the reported amounts of
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The
company evaluates these estimates and judgments on
an ongoing basis and bases the estimates on historical
experience, current and expected future outcomes,
third-party evaluations and various other assumptions
that Philips believes are reasonable under the
circumstances. Existing circumstances and assumptions

Correction of errors in accounting for Earnings Per
Share
During 2018, Philips determined that the basic and
diluted earnings per common share amounts for income
from continuing operations attributable to shareholders,
presented in the 2017 consolidated financial statements
of the Group, were understated for both 2017 and 2016.
The understatement was a result of an error, solely
impacting certain EPS calculations and disclosures, in
the allocation of income attributable to non-controlling
interests, between continuing and discontinued
operations. The correction of this error resulted in basic
earnings per common share for income from continuing
operations attributable to shareholders for 2017, being
restated upwards from EUR 0.88 to EUR 1.10 (2016: EUR
0.86 to EUR 0.90). Similarly, diluted earnings per

Annual Report 2018

Statements 11.1.9

common share for income from continuing operations
attributable to shareholders for 2017 was restated
upwards from EUR 0.86 to EUR 1.08 (2016: EUR 0.85 to
EUR 0.89). Basic and diluted earnings per common
share for income from discontinued operations has
been restated downwards in an equal amount.
The basic and diluted net income attributable to
shareholders earnings per common share in either year
were not impacted.
Changes in presentation from the prior year
Accounting policies have been applied consistently for
all periods presented in these consolidated financial
statements, except for the items mentioned below. In
addition, certain prior-year amounts have been
reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Change in Consolidated balance sheets presentation
Following the adoption of IFRS 15, the company has
changed the presentation of certain amounts in the
Consolidated balance sheets to reflect the terminology
of IFRS 15. Further reference is made to the section New
standards and interpretations of this note.
Change in Segment reporting
Due to the divestment and deconsolidation of
businesses in 2017, Philips changed the way it allocates
resources and analyzes its performance based on the
revised segment structure. Accordingly, from 2018
onwards the operational reportable segments for the
purpose of the disclosures required by IFRS 8 Operating
Segments were Diagnosis & Treatment businesses,
Connected Care & Health Informatics businesses and
Personal Health businesses. Each being responsible for
the management of its business worldwide.
Additionally, HealthTech Other and Legacy Items were
combined into Other. The new segment structure had
no impact on the cash-generating units disclosed in
Goodwill, starting on page 144.
Consequential changes to comparative segment
disclosures have been processed in Other assets,
starting on page 147, Receivables, starting on page 148,
and Provisions, starting on page 153. The 2017 and 2016
segment results have been reclassified according to the
revised reporting structure. Segment information can be
found in Information by segment and main country,
starting on page 129.
Specific choices within IFRS
In certain instances IFRS allows alternative accounting
treatments for measurement and/or disclosure. Philips
has adopted one of the treatments as appropriate to
the circumstances of the company. The most important
of these alternative treatments are mentioned below.

are evaluated annually. Furthermore, the company
chose to apply the cost model, meaning that costs
relating to product development, the development and
purchase of software for internal use and other
intangible assets are capitalized and subsequently
amortized over the estimated useful life. Further
information on Tangible and Intangible fixed assets can
be found in Property, plant and equipment, starting on
page 143 and in Intangible assets excluding goodwill,
starting on page 146, respectively.
Employee benefit accounting
IFRS does not specify how an entity should present its
service costs related to pensions and net interest on the
net defined-benefit liability (asset) in the Consolidated
statements of income. With regards to these elements,
the company presents service costs in Income from
operations and the net interest expenses related to
defined-benefit plans in Financial expense.
Furthermore, when accounting for the settlement of
defined-benefit plans, the company made the
accounting policy choice to adjust the amount of the
plan assets transferred for the effect of the asset ceiling.
Further information on employee benefit accounting
can be found in Post-employment benefits, starting on
page 156.
Cash flow statements
Under IFRS, an entity shall report cash flows from
operating activities using either the direct method
(whereby major classes of gross cash receipts and gross
cash payments are disclosed) or the indirect method
(whereby profit or loss is adjusted for the effects of
transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals or
accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or
payments, and items of income or expense associated
with investing or financing cash flows). In this respect,
the company chose to prepare the cash flow
statements using the indirect method.
Furthermore, interest cash flows are presented in cash
flows from operating activities rather than in cash flows
from financing or investing activities, because they enter
into the determination of profit or loss. The company
chose to present dividends paid to shareholders of
Koninklijke Philips N.V. as a component of cash flows
from financing activities, rather than to present such
dividends as cash flows from operating activities, which
is an allowed alternative under IFRS.
Consolidated statements of cash flows can be found in
Consolidated statements of cash flows, starting on page
110.
Policies that are more critical in nature

Tangible and intangible fixed assets
Under IFRS, an entity shall choose either the cost model
or the revaluation model as its accounting model for
tangible and intangible fixed assets. In this respect,
items of property, plant and equipment are measured at
cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated
impairment losses. The useful lives and residual values

Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods in the normal course of
business is recognized at a point in time when the
performance obligation is satisfied and it is based on
the amount of the transaction price that is allocated to
the performance obligation. The transaction price is the
Annual Report 2018

113

Statements 11.1.9

amount of the consideration to which the company
expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring the
promised goods to the customer. The consideration
expected by the company may include fixed and/or
variable amounts which can be impacted by sales
returns, trade discounts and volume rebates. The
company adjusts the consideration for the time value of
money for the contracts where no explicit interest rate is
mentioned if the period between the transfer of the
promised goods or services to the customer and
payment by the customer exceeds six months. Revenue
for the sale of goods is recognized when control of the
asset is transferred to the buyer and only when it is
highly probable that a significant reversal of revenue
will not occur when uncertainties related to a variable
consideration are resolved.
Transfer of control varies depending on the individual
terms of the contract of sale. For consumer-type
products in the segment of Personal Health, control is
transferred when the product is shipped and delivered
to the customer and title and risk have passed to the
customer (depending on the delivery conditions) and
acceptance of the product has been obtained.
Examples of delivery conditions are ‘Free on Board
point of delivery’ and ‘Costs, Insurance Paid point of
delivery’, where the point of delivery may be the
shipping warehouse or any other point of destination as
agreed in the contract with the customer and where
control is transferred to the customer.
Revenues from transactions relating to distinct goods or
services are accounted for separately based on their
relative stand-alone selling prices. The stand-alone
selling price is defined as the price that would be
charged for the goods or service in a separate
transaction under similar conditions to similar
customers (adjusted market assessment approach or
expected costs plus margin approach), which within the
company is mainly the Country Target Price (CTP). The
transaction price determined (taking into account
variable considerations) is allocated to performance
obligations based on relative stand-alone selling prices.
These transactions mainly occur in the segments
Diagnosis & Treatment and Connected Care & Health
Informatics and include arrangements that require
subsequent installation and training activities in order to
make distinct goods operable for the customer. As such,
the related installation and training activities are part of
equipment sales rather than separate performance
obligations. Revenue is recognized when the
performance obligation is satisfied, i.e. when the
installation has been completed and the equipment is
ready to be used by the customer in the way
contractually agreed.
Revenues are recorded net of sales taxes. A variable
consideration is recognized to the extent that it is highly
probable that a significant reversal in the amount of
cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the
uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is
subsequently resolved. Such assessment is performed
on each reporting date to check whether it is
constrained. For products for which a right of return
114

Annual Report 2018

exists during a defined period, revenue recognition is
determined based on the historical pattern of actual
returns, or in cases where such information is not
available revenue recognition is postponed until the
return period has lapsed. Return policies are typically
based on customary return arrangements in local
markets.
A provision is recognized for assurance-type product
warranty at the time of revenue recognition and reflects
the estimated costs of replacement and free-of-charge
services that will be incurred by the company with
respect to the products sold. For certain products, the
customer has the option to purchase the warranty
separately, which is considered a separate performance
obligation on top of the assurance-type product
warranty. For such warranties which provide distinct
service, revenue recognition occurs on a straight-line
basis over the extended warranty contract period.
In the case of loss under a sales agreement, the loss is
recognized immediately.
Expenses incurred for shipping and handling of internal
movements of goods are recorded as cost of sales.
Shipping and handling related to sales to third parties
are recorded as selling expenses. When shipping and
handling are part of a project and billed to the
customer, then the related expenses are recorded as
cost of sales. Shipping and handling billed to customers
are distinct and separate performance obligations and
recognized as revenues. Expenses incurred for sales
commissions that are considered incremental to the
contracts are recognized immediately in the
Consolidated statements of income as selling expenses
as a practical expedient under IFRS 15.
Revenue from services is recognized over a period of
time as the company transfers control of the services to
the customer which is demonstrated by the customer
simultaneously receiving and consuming the benefits
provided by the company. The amount of revenues is
measured by reference to the progress made towards
complete satisfaction of the performance obligation,
which in general is evenly over time. Service revenue
related to repair and maintenance activities for goods
sold is recognized ratably over the service period or as
services are rendered.
Royalty income from brand license arrangements is
recognized based on a right to access the license, which
in practice means over the contract period based on a
fixed amount or reliable estimate of sales made by a
licensee.
Royalty income from intellectual property rights such as
technology licenses or patents is recognized based on a
right to use the license, which in practice means at a
point in time based on the contractual terms and
substance of the relevant agreement with a licensee.
However, revenue related to intellectual property
contracts with variable consideration where a constraint
in the estimation is identified, is recognized over the

Statements 11.1.9

contract period and is based on actual or reliably
estimated sales made by a licensee.
The company receives payments from customers based
on a billing schedule or credit period, as established in
our contracts. Credit periods are determined based on
standard terms, which vary according to local market
conditions. Amounts posted in deferred revenue for
which the goods or services have not yet been
transferred to the customer and amounts that have
either been received or are due, are presented as
Contract liabilities in the Consolidated balance sheets.
Income taxes
Income taxes comprise current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognized in the Consolidated
statements of income except to the extent that it relates
to items recognized directly within equity or in other
comprehensive income. Current tax is the expected
taxes payable on the taxable income for the year, using
tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the
reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in
respect of previous years.
Tax liabilities are recognized when it is considered
probable that there will be a future outflow of funds to a
taxing authority. In such cases, provision is made for the
amount that is expected to be settled, where this can
be reasonably estimated. This assessment relies on
estimates and assumptions and may involve a series of
judgments about future events. New information may
become available that causes the company to change
its judgment regarding the adequacy of existing tax
liabilities. Such changes to tax liabilities will impact the
income tax expense in the period during which such a
determination is made.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized, using
the Consolidated balance sheets method, for the
expected tax consequences of temporary differences
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities
and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred
tax is not recognized for the following temporary
differences: the initial recognition of goodwill; the initial
recognition of assets and liabilities in a transaction that
is not a business combination and that affects neither
accounting nor taxable profit; and differences relating to
investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and
associates where the reversal of the respective
temporary difference can be controlled by the company
and it is probable that it will not reverse in the
foreseeable future. Deferred taxes are measured at the
tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary
differences when they reverse, based on the laws that
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
reporting date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset
current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to
income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the
same taxable entity or on different taxable entities, but
the company intends to settle current tax liabilities and
assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities
will be realized simultaneously.

A deferred tax asset is recognized for unused tax losses,
tax credits and deductible temporary differences to the
extent that it is probable that there will be future
taxable profits against which they can be utilized. The
ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent
upon the generation of future taxable income in the
countries where the deferred tax assets originated and
during the periods when the deferred tax assets
become deductible. Management considers the
scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected
future taxable income and tax planning strategies in
making this assessment.
Deferred tax liabilities for withholding taxes are
recognized for subsidiaries in situations where the
income is to be paid out as dividend in the foreseeable
future and for undistributed earnings of unconsolidated
companies to the extent that these withholding taxes
are not expected to be refundable or deductible.
Changes in tax rates and tax laws are reflected in the
period when the change was enacted or substantively
enacted by the reporting date.
Any subsequent adjustment to a tax asset or liability
that originated in discontinued operations and for which
no specific arrangements were made at the time of
divestment, due to a change in the tax base or its
measurement, is allocated to discontinued operations
(i.e. backwards tracing). Examples are a tax rate change
or change in retained assets or liabilities directly relating
to the discontinued operation. Any subsequent change
to the recognition of deferred tax assets is allocated to
the component in which the taxable gain is or will be
recognized. The above principles are applied to the
extent the ‘discontinued operations’ are sufficiently
separable from continuing operations.
Further information on income tax can be found in
Income taxes, starting on page 138.
Provisions
Provisions are recognized if, as a result of a past event,
the company has a present legal or constructive
obligation, the amount can be estimated reliably, and it
is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be
required to settle the obligation. Provisions are
measured at the present value of the expenditures
expected to be required to settle the obligation using a
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market
assessments of the time value of money. The increase
in the provision due to passage of time is recognized as
interest expense. The accounting and presentation for
some of the company’s provisions is as follows:
• Product warranty – A provision for assurance-type
product warranty is recognized when the underlying
products or services are sold. The provision is based
on historical warranty data and a weighing of
possible outcomes against their associated
probabilities.
• Environmental provisions – Measurement of
liabilities associated with environmental obligations
is based on current legal and constructive
requirements. Liabilities and expected insurance
Annual Report 2018

115

Statements 11.1.9

recoveries, if any, are recorded separately. The
carrying amount of environmental liabilities is
regularly reviewed and adjusted for new facts and
changes in law.
• Restructuring-related provisions – The provision for
restructuring mainly relates to the estimated costs of
initiated restructurings, the most significant of which
have been approved by the Executive Committee,
and which generally involve the realignment of
certain parts of the industrial and commercial
organization. When such restructurings require
discontinuance and/or closure of lines of activities,
the anticipated costs of closure or discontinuance
are included in restructuring provisions. A liability is
recognized for those costs only when the company
has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and
has raised a valid expectation with those affected
that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to
implement that plan or announcing its main features
to those affected by it. Before a provision is
established, the company recognizes any
impairment loss on the assets associated with the
restructuring.
• Litigation provisions – In relation to legal claim
provisions and settlements, the relevant balances
are transferred to Other liabilities at the point when
the amount and timing of cash outflows are no
longer uncertain. Settlements which are agreed for
amounts in excess of existing provisions are
reflected as increases in Other liabilities.
Further information on provisions can be found in
Provisions, starting on page 153.
Goodwill
The measurement of goodwill at initial recognition is
described in the Basis of consolidation note. Goodwill is
subsequently measured at cost less accumulated
impairment losses. Further information on goodwill can
also be found in Goodwill, starting on page 144.
Intangible assets other than goodwill
Acquired finite-lived intangible assets are amortized
using the straight-line method over their estimated
useful life. The useful lives are evaluated annually.
Intangible assets are initially capitalized at cost, with the
exception of intangible assets acquired as part of a
business combination, which are capitalized at their
acquisition date fair value.

116

are recognized in the Consolidated statements of
income. Capitalized development expenditure is stated
at cost less accumulated amortization and impairment
losses. Amortization of capitalized development
expenditure is charged to the Consolidated statements
of income on a straight-line basis over the estimated
useful lives of the intangible assets.
Further information on intangible assets other than
goodwill can be found in Intangible assets excluding
goodwill, starting on page 146.
Discontinued operations and non-current assets held
for sale
Non-current assets and disposal groups comprising
assets and liabilities that are expected to be recovered
primarily through sale rather than through continuing
use are classified as held for sale.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale and the
assets of a disposal group classified as held for sale are
presented separately from the other assets in the
Consolidated balance sheets. The liabilities of a
disposal group classified as held for sale are presented
separately from other liabilities in the Consolidated
balance sheets.
A discontinued operation is a component of an entity
that has either been disposed of or is classified as held
for sale, and represents a separate major line of
business or geographical area of operations; or is a part
of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate
major line of business or geographical area of
operations; or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a
view to sell.
If a discontinued operation is sold in stages as part of a
single coordinated plan until it is completely sold, then
the Investment in associate that is recognized upon sale
of a portion that results in Philips having significant
influence in the operation (rather than control) is
continued to be treated as discontinued operation
provided that the held for sale criteria are met.

The company expenses all research costs as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby
research findings are applied to a plan or design for the
production of new or substantially improved products
and processes, is capitalized as an intangible asset if
the product or process is technically and commercially
feasible, the company has sufficient resources and the
intention to complete development and can measure
the attributable expenditure reliably.

Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued
operations are carried at the lower of carrying amount
or fair value less cost of disposal. Any gain or loss from
disposal, together with the results of these operations
until the date of disposal, is reported separately as
discontinued operations. The financial information of
discontinued operations is excluded from the respective
captions in the Consolidated financial statements and
related notes for all periods presented. Comparatives in
the Consolidated balance sheets are not represented
when a non-current asset or disposal group is classified
as held for sale. Comparatives are represented for
presentation of discontinued operations in the
Consolidated statements of cash flows and
Consolidated statements of income.

The capitalized development expenditure comprises of
all directly attributable costs (including the cost of
materials and direct labor). Other development
expenditures and expenditures on research activities

Adjustments in the current period to amounts
previously presented in discontinued operations that
are directly related to the disposal of a discontinued
operation in a prior period, and for which no specific

Annual Report 2018

Statements 11.1.9

arrangements were made at the time of divestment, are
classified separately in discontinued operations.
Circumstances to which these adjustments may relate
include resolution of uncertainties that arise from the
terms of the disposal transaction, such as the resolution
of purchase price adjustments and indemnifications,
resolution of uncertainties that arise from and are
directly related to the operations of the component
before its disposal, such as environmental and
assurance-type product warranty obligations retained
by the company, and the settlement of employee
benefit plan obligations provided that the settlement is
directly related to the disposal transaction.
Further information on discontinued operations and
non-current assets held for sale can be found in
Discontinued operations and assets classified as held
for sale, starting on page 131.
Impairment
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets not yet
ready for use
Goodwill and intangible assets not yet ready for use are
not amortized but are tested for impairment annually
and whenever impairment indicators require. In case of
goodwill and intangible assets not yet ready for use,
either internal or external sources of information are
considered indicators that an asset or a CGU may be
impaired. In most cases the company identified its
cash-generating units for goodwill at one level below
that of an operating segment. Cash flows at this level
are substantially independent from other cash flows
and this is the lowest level at which goodwill is
monitored by the Executive Committee. An impairment
loss is recognized in the Consolidated statements of
income whenever and to the extent that the carrying
amount of a cash-generating unit exceeds the unit’s
recoverable amount, whichever is the greater, its value
in use or its fair value less cost of disposal. Value in use
is measured as the present value of future cash flows
expected to be generated by the asset. Fair value less
cost of disposal is measured as the amount obtained
from the sale of an asset in an arm’s length transaction,
less costs of disposal.
Further information on impairment of goodwill and
intangible assets not yet ready for use can be found in
Goodwill, starting on page 144 and Intangible assets
excluding goodwill, starting on page 146 respectively.
Impairment of non-financial assets other than
goodwill, intangible assets not yet ready for use,
inventories and deferred tax assets
Non-financial assets other than goodwill, intangible
assets not yet ready for use, inventories and deferred
tax assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
Recoverability of assets to be held and used is assessed
by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset
with the greater of its value in use and fair value less
cost of disposal. Value in use is measured as the
present value of future cash flows expected to be

generated by the asset. Fair value less cost of disposal
is measured as the amount obtained from a sale of an
asset in an arm’s length transaction, less costs of
disposal. If the carrying amount of an asset is deemed
not recoverable, an impairment charge is recognized in
the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset
exceeds the recoverable amount. The review for
impairment is carried out at the level where cash flows
occur that are independent of other cash flows.
Impairment losses recognized in prior periods are
assessed at each reporting date for any indications that
the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An
impairment loss is reversed if and to the extent that
there has been a change in the estimates used to
determine the recoverable amount. The loss is reversed
only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does
not exceed the carrying amount that would have been
determined, net of depreciation or amortization, if no
impairment loss had been recognized. Reversals of
impairment are recognized in the Consolidated
statements of income.
Impairment of financial assets
The company recognizes an allowance for expected
credit losses (ECLs) for trade receivables, contract
assets, lease receivables, debt investments carried at
FVTOCI and amortized cost. ECLs are based on the
difference between the contractual cash flows due in
accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that
the company expects to receive, discounted at an
approximation of the original effective interest rate.
ECLs are recognized in two stages. For credit risk
exposures for which there has not been a significant
increase in credit risk since initial recognition, ECLs are
provided for credit losses that result from default events
that are possible within the next 12 months (12-month
ECLs). The company considers a financial asset to be in
default when the counterparty is unlikely to pay its
credit obligations to the company in full or when the
financial asset is past due. For those credit exposures
for which there has been a significant increase in credit
risk since initial recognition, a loss allowance is required
for credit losses expected over the remaining life of the
exposure, irrespective of the timing of the default
(lifetime ECLs). When determining whether the credit
risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since
initial recognition, the company considers reasonable
and supportable information that is relevant and
available without undue cost or effort. This includes
both quantitative and qualitative information and
analysis, based on the company's historical experience
and informed credit assessment and including forwardlooking information, such as forecast economic
conditions that affect the ability of the customers to
settle the receivables.
For all trade receivables, contract assets and lease
receivables, the company applies the IFRS 9 simplified
approach to measuring ECLs, which uses the lifetime
ECL allowance. To measure the ECLs on trade
receivables and contract assets, the company takes into
account credit-risk concentration, collective debt risk
Annual Report 2018

117

Statements 11.1.9

based on average historical losses, specific
circumstances such as serious adverse economic
conditions in a specific country or region, and other
forward-looking information. Trade receivables, contract
assets and lease receivables are written off when there
is no reasonable expectation of recovery of the asset,
for example because of bankruptcy or other forms of
receivership.
Further information on financial assets can be found in
Other financial assets, starting on page 147.

The company measures goodwill at the acquisition date
as:
• the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus
• the recognized amount of any non-controlling
interest in the acquiree; plus
• if the business combination is achieved in stages, the
fair value of the existing equity interest in the
acquiree; less
• the net recognized amount (generally fair value) of
the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
assumed.

Other policies
Basis of consolidation
The Consolidated financial statements comprise the
financial statements of Koninklijke Philips N.V. and all
subsidiaries that the company controls, i.e. when it is
exposed or has rights to variable returns from its
involvement with the investee and has the ability to
affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of
voting rights results in control. To support this
presumption and in cases where Philips has less than a
majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee,
Philips considers all relevant facts and circumstances in
assessing whether it has power over an investee,
including the contractual arrangement(s) with the other
vote holders of the investee, rights arising from other
contractual arrangements and the company’s voting
rights and potential voting rights. Subsidiaries are fully
consolidated from the date that control commences
until the date that control ceases. All intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated in the
Consolidated financial statements. Unrealized losses are
eliminated in the same way as unrealized gains, but
only to the extent that there is no evidence of
impairment.
Loss of control
Upon loss of control, the company derecognizes the
assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, any noncontrolling interests and the other components of
equity related to the subsidiary. Any surplus or deficit
arising from the loss of control is recognized in the
Consolidated statements of income. If the company
retains any interest in the previous subsidiary, such
interest is measured at fair value at the date the control
is lost. Subsequently it is accounted for as either an
equity-accounted investee (associate) or as a financial
asset, depending on the level of influence retained.
Further information on loss of control can be found in
Discontinued operations and assets classified as held
for sale, starting on page 131.
Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the
acquisition method. Under the acquisition method, the
identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any
non-controlling interest in the acquiree are recognized
at the acquisition date, which is the date on which
control is transferred to the company.

118

Annual Report 2018

Costs related to the acquisition, other than those
associated with the issue of debt or equity securities,
that the company incurs are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognized at
fair value at the acquisition date and initially is
presented in Long-term provisions. When the timing
and amount of the consideration become more certain,
it is reclassified to Accrued liabilities. If the contingent
consideration that meets the definition of a financial
instrument is classified as equity, it is not remeasured
and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the
contingent consideration are recognized in the
Consolidated statements of income.
Non-controlling interests are measured on the basis of
their proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable
net assets at the date of acquisition.
Further information on business combinations can be
found in Acquisitions and divestments, starting on page
133.
Acquisitions of and adjustments to non-controlling
interests
Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted
for as transactions with owners in their capacity as
owners and therefore no goodwill is recognized.
Adjustments to non-controlling interests arising from
transactions that do not involve the loss of control are
based on a proportionate amount of the net assets of
the subsidiary.
Investments in associates (equity-accounted
investees)
Associates are all entities over which the company has
significant influence, but no control. Significant
influence is presumed with a shareholding of between
20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in
associates are accounted for using the equity method
of accounting and are initially recognized at cost. The
carrying amount of an investment includes the carrying
amount of goodwill identified on acquisition. An
impairment loss on such investment is allocated to the
investment as a whole.
The company’s share of the net income of these
companies is included in Investments in associates, net
of income taxes, in the Consolidated statements of
income, after adjustments to align the accounting

Statements 11.1.9

policies with those of the company, from the date that
significant influence commences until the date that
significant influence ceases. Dilution gains and losses
arising from investments in associates are recognized in
the Consolidated statements of income as part of
Investments in associates, net of income taxes. When
the company’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an
associate, the carrying amount of that interest
(including any long-term loans) is reduced to zero and
recognition of further losses is discontinued except to
the extent that the company has incurred legal or
constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of
the associate. Unrealized gains on transactions between
the company and its associates are eliminated to the
extent of the company’s interest in the associates.
Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the
transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the
asset transferred. Remeasurement differences of an
equity stake resulting from gaining control over an
investee that was previously recorded as an associate
are recorded under Investments in associates.
Further information on investments in associates can be
found in Interests in entities, starting on page 134.

Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are
retranslated to the functional currency using the
exchange rate at the date the fair value was
determined. Non-monetary items in a foreign currency
that are measured based on historical cost are
translated using the exchange rate at the transaction
date.
Foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including
goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on
acquisition, are translated to euros at the exchange
rates prevailing at the reporting date. The income and
expenses of foreign operations are translated to euros
at the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the
transactions.
Foreign currency differences arising upon translation of
foreign operations into euros are recognized in Other
comprehensive income, and presented as part of
Currency translation differences in Equity. However, if
the operation is a non-wholly-owned subsidiary, the
relevant proportionate share of the translation
difference is allocated to Non-controlling interests.

Foreign currencies
Foreign currency transactions
The financial statements of all group entities are
measured using the currency of the primary economic
environment in which the entity operates (functional
currency). The euro (EUR) is the functional currency of
the company and the presentation currency of the
Group financial statements. Foreign currency
transactions are translated into the functional currency
using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the
transactions or the valuation in cases where items are
remeasured. Foreign exchange gains and losses
resulting from the settlement of such transactions and
from the translation at year-end exchange rates of
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies are recognized in the Consolidated
statements of income, except when deferred in Other
comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges
and qualifying net investment hedges.

When a foreign operation is disposed of such that
control, significant influence or joint control is lost, the
cumulative amount in the Currency translation
differences related to the foreign operation is
reclassified to the Consolidated statements of income
as part of the gain or loss on disposal. When the
company disposes of only part of its interest in a
subsidiary that includes a foreign operation while
retaining control, the respective proportion of the
cumulative amount is reattributed to Non-controlling
interests. When the company disposes of only part of
its investment in an associate or joint venture that
includes a foreign operation while retaining significant
influence or joint control, the relevant proportion of the
cumulative amount is reclassified to the Consolidated
statements of income.
Financial instruments
Non-derivative financial assets

Foreign currency differences arising from translations
are recognized in the Consolidated statements of
income, except for equity investments measured at fair
value through OCI which are recognized in Other
comprehensive income. If there is an impairment which
results in foreign currency differences being recognized,
these differences are reclassified from Other
comprehensive income to the Consolidated statements
of income.
All exchange difference items are presented as part of
Cost of sales, with the exception of tax items and
financial income and expense, which are recognized in
the same line item as they relate to in the Consolidated
statements of income.

Recognition and initial measurement
Non-derivative financial assets are recognized when the
company becomes a party to the contractual provisions
of the instrument. Purchases and sales of financial
assets in the normal course of business are accounted
for at the trade date. Dividend and interest income are
recognized when earned. Gains or losses, if any, are
recorded in Financial income and expense. Nonderivative financial assets are derecognized when the
rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired
or the company has transferred its rights to receive cash
flows from the asset.
At initial recognition, the company measures a financial
asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset
not at FVTPL, transaction costs that are directly
attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset.
Annual Report 2018

119

Statements 11.1.9

Transaction costs of financial assets carried at FVTPL
are expensed in the Consolidated statements of
income.
Classification and subsequent measurement
The company classifies its non-derivative financial
assets in the following measurement categories:
• those that are measured subsequently at fair value
(either through OCI (FVTOCI) or profit or loss
(FVTPL));
• those that are measured at amortized cost.
In assessing the classification, the company considers
the business model for managing the financial assets
and the contractual terms of the cash flows.
For assets measured at fair value, gains and losses will
be recorded in either the Consolidated statements of
income or in Other comprehensive income (OCI). For
investments in equity instruments that are not held for
trading, this will depend on whether the company has
made an irrevocable election at the time of initial
recognition to account for the equity investment at
FVTOCI. For investments in these equity instruments,
the company does not subsequently reclassify between
FVTOCI and FVTPL. For debt investments, assets are
reclassified between FVTOCI, FVTPL and amortized
cost only when its business model for managing those
assets changes.
Non-derivative financial assets comprise cash and cash
equivalents, receivables and other financial assets.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include all cash balances,
certain money market funds and short-term highly
liquid investments with an original maturity of three
months or less that are readily convertible into known
amounts of cash. Further information on cash and cash
equivalents can be found in Cash flow statement
supplementary information, starting on page 160.
Receivables
Receivable balances that are held to collect are
subsequently measured at amortized cost and are
subject to impairment as explained in the impairment
section of this note. Receivables that are held to collect
and sell are subsequently measured at FVTOCI and are
also subject to impairment. The company derecognizes
receivables on entering into factoring transactions if the
company has transferred substantially all risks and
rewards or if the company does not retain control over
those receivables. Further information on receivables
can be found in Receivables, starting on page 148.
Other (non-)current financial assets
Other (non-)current financial assets include both debt
instruments and equity instruments.
Debt instruments include those subsequently carried at
amortized cost, those carried at FVTPL and those
carried at FVTOCI. Classification depends on the

120

Annual Report 2018

company’s business model for managing the asset and
the cash flow characteristics of the asset.
Debt instruments that are held for collection of
contractual cash flows, where those cash flows
represent solely payments of principal and interest, are
measured at amortized cost and are subject to
impairment. Interest income from these financial assets
is included in Financial income using the effective
interest rate method. Financial assets with embedded
derivatives are considered in their entirety when
determining whether their cash flows are solely
payment of principal and interest.
Debt instruments that are held for collection of
contractual cash flows and for selling the financial
assets, where the assets’ cash flows represent solely
payments of principal and interest, are measured at
FVTOCI and are subject to impairment. Movements in
the carrying amounts are taken through OCI, except for
the recognition of impairment gains or losses, interest
revenue and foreign exchange gains and losses, which
are recognized in the Consolidated statements of
income. When the financial asset is derecognized, the
cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in OCI is
reclassified from equity to the Consolidated statements
of income. Interest income from these financial assets is
included in Financial income using the effective interest
rate method.
Debt instruments that do not meet the criteria for
amortized cost or FVTOCI are measured at FVTPL. A
gain or loss on a debt investment that is subsequently
measured at FVTPL is recognized in the Consolidated
statements of income in the period in which it arises.
Equity investments are subsequently measured at fair
value. Equity instruments that are held for trading are
measured at FVTPL. For equity instruments that are not
held for trading, the company makes an irrevocable
election at the time of initial recognition whether to
account for the equity investment at FVTPL or FVTOCI.
Where management has elected to present fair value
gains and losses on equity investments in OCI, there is
no subsequent reclassification of fair value gains and
losses to the Consolidated statements of income
following the derecognition of the investment.
Dividends from such investments continue to be
recognized in the Consolidated statements of income
when the company’s right to receive payments is
established.
Further information on other (non-)current financial
assets can be found in Other financial assets, starting
on page 147
Debt and other financial liabilities
Debt and other financial liabilities, excluding derivative
financial liabilities and provisions, are initially measured
at fair value and, in the case of debt and payables, net
of directly attributable transaction costs. Debt and other
financial liabilities are subsequently measured at
amortized cost using the effective interest rate.
Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any

Statements 11.1.9

discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs
that are an integral part of the effective interest rate.

statements of income against the related hedged
transaction when it occurs.

Debt and other financial liabilities are derecognized
when the obligation under the liability is discharged,
cancelled or has expired.

Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly
effective and that is designated and qualifies as a cash
flow hedge are recorded in OCI until the Consolidated
statements of income are affected by the variability in
cash flows of the designated hedged item. To the extent
that the hedge is ineffective, changes in the fair value
are recognized in the Consolidated statements of
income.

Further information on debt and other financial
liabilities can be found in Debt, starting on page 151.
Equity
Common shares are classified as equity. Incremental
costs directly attributable to the issuance of shares are
recognized as a deduction from equity. Where the
company purchases the company’s equity share capital
(treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any
directly attributable incremental transaction costs (net
of income taxes), is deducted from equity attributable
to the company’s equity holders until the shares are
cancelled or reissued. Where such ordinary shares are
subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net
of any directly attributable incremental transaction
costs and the related income tax effects, is included in
equity attributable to the company’s equity holders.
Call options on own shares are treated as equity
instruments.
Dividends are recognized as a liability in the period in
which they are declared and approved by shareholders.
The income tax consequences of dividends are
recognized when a liability to pay the dividend is
recognized.
Further information on equity can be found in Equity,
starting on page 148.
Derivative financial instruments, including hedge
accounting
The company uses derivative financial instruments
principally to manage its foreign currency risks and, to a
more limited extent, interest rate and commodity price
risks. All derivative financial instruments are accounted
for at the trade date and classified as current or noncurrent assets or liabilities based on the maturity date or
the early termination date. The company measures all
derivative financial instruments at fair value that is
derived from the market prices of the instruments,
calculated on the basis of the present value of the
estimated future cash flows based on observable
interest yield curves, basis spread, credit spreads and
foreign exchange rates, or derived from option pricing
models, as appropriate. Gains or losses arising from
changes in fair value of derivatives are recognized in the
Consolidated statements of income, except for
derivatives that are highly effective and qualify for cash
flow or net investment hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of foreign exchange forward
contracts attributable to forward points and changes in
the time value of the option contracts are deferred in
the cash flow hedges reserve within equity. The
deferred amounts are recognized in the Consolidated

The company formally assesses, both at the hedge’s
inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the
derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are
highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or
cash flows of hedged items. When it is established that
a derivative is not highly effective as a hedge or that it
has ceased to be a highly effective hedge, the company
discontinues hedge accounting prospectively. When
hedge accounting is discontinued because it is
expected that a forecasted transaction will not occur,
the company continues to carry the derivative on the
Consolidated balance sheets at its fair value, and gains
and losses that were accumulated in OCI are recognized
immediately in the same line item as they relate to in
the Consolidated statements of income.
Foreign currency differences arising upon retranslation
of financial instruments designated as a hedge of a net
investment in a foreign operation are recognized
directly in the currency translation differences reserve
through OCI, to the extent that the hedge is effective. To
the extent that the hedge is ineffective, such differences
are recognized in the Consolidated statements of
income.
Offsetting and master netting agreements
The company presents financial assets and financial
liabilities on a gross basis as separate line items in the
Consolidated balance sheets.
Master netting agreements may be entered into when
the company undertakes a number of financial
instrument transactions with a single counterparty.
Such an agreement provides for a net settlement of all
financial instruments covered by the agreement in the
event of default or certain termination events
associated with any of the transactions. A master
netting agreement may create a right to offset that
becomes enforceable and affects the realization or
settlement of individual financial assets and financial
liabilities only following a specified termination event.
However, if this contractual right is subject to certain
limitations then it does not necessarily provide a basis
for offsetting, unless both of the offsetting criteria are
met, i.e. there is a legally enforceable right and an
intention to settle net or simultaneously.
Property, plant and equipment
The costs of property, plant and equipment comprise all
directly attributable costs (including the cost of material
and direct labor).
Annual Report 2018

121

Statements 11.1.9

Depreciation is generally calculated using the straightline method over the useful life of the asset. Gains and
losses on the sale of property, plant and equipment are
included in Other Business Income. Costs related to
repair and maintenance activities are expensed in the
period in which they are incurred unless leading to an
extension of the original lifetime or capacity.

facilities. Costs of idle facility and abnormal waste are
expensed. The cost of inventories is determined using
the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Inventory is reduced
for the estimated losses due to obsolescence. This
reduction is determined for groups of products based
on sales in the recent past and/or expected future
demand.

Plant and equipment under finance leases and
leasehold improvements are amortized using the
straight-line method over the shorter of the lease term
or the estimated useful life of the asset. The gain
realized on sale and operating leaseback transactions
that are concluded based upon market conditions is
recognized at the time of the sale in Other Business
Income, in the Consolidated statements of income.

Further information on inventories can be found in
Inventories, starting on page 148.

Further information on property, plant and equipment
can be found in Property, plant and equipment, starting
on page 143.
Leases
The company determines whether an arrangement
constitutes or contains a lease at inception, which is
based on the substance of the arrangement at the
inception of the lease. The arrangement constitutes or
contains a lease if fulfillment is dependent on the use of
a specific asset and the arrangement conveys a right to
use the asset, even if that asset is not explicitly specified
in the arrangement.
Leases in which the company is the lessee and has
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are
classified as finance leases. Finance leases are
capitalized at the commencement of the lease at the
lower of the fair value of the leased assets or the
present value of the minimum lease payments. Each
lease payment is allocated between the liability and
finance charges. The interest element of the finance
cost is charged to the Consolidated statements of
income over the lease period so as to produce a
constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining
balance of the liability for each period. The
corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges,
are included in other short-term and other non-current
liabilities.
Leases in which the company is the lessee and in which
substantially all risks and rewards of ownership are
retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases (net of any
incentives received from the lessor) are recognized in
the Consolidated statements of income on a straightline basis over the term of the lease.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net
realizable value. The cost of inventories comprises all
costs of purchase, costs of conversion and other costs
incurred in bringing the inventories to their present
location and condition. The costs of conversion of
inventories include direct labor and fixed and variable
production overheads, taking into account the stage of
completion and the normal capacity of production
122

Annual Report 2018

Employee benefit accounting
A defined-contribution plan is a post-employment
benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed
contributions into a separate entity and will have no
legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined-contribution
pension plans are recognized as an employee benefit
expense in the Consolidated statements of income in
the periods during which services are rendered by
employees.
A defined-benefit plan is a post-employment benefit
plan other than a defined-contribution plan. Plans for
which the company has no legal or constructive
obligation to pay further amounts, but to which it does
pay non-fixed contributions, are also treated as a
defined-benefit plan. The net pension asset or liability
recognized in the Consolidated balance sheets in
respect of defined-benefit post-employment plans is
the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the
projected defined-benefit obligation at the
Consolidated balance sheets date. The defined-benefit
obligation is calculated annually by qualified actuaries
using the projected unit credit method. Recognized
assets are limited to the present value of any reductions
in future contributions or any future refunds. The net
pension liability is presented as a long-term provision;
no distinction is made for the short-term portion.
For the company’s major plans, a full discount rate
curve of high-quality corporate bonds is used to
determine the defined-benefit obligation. The curves
are based on Willis Towers Watson’s rate methodology
which uses data of corporate bonds rated AA or
equivalent. For the other plans a single-point discount
rate is used based on corporate bonds for which there is
a deep market and on the plan’s maturity. Plans in
countries without a deep corporate bond market use a
discount rate based on the local sovereign curve and
the plan’s maturity.
Pension costs in respect of defined-benefit postemployment plans primarily represent the increase of
the actuarial present value of the obligation for postemployment benefits based on employee service
during the year and the interest on the net recognized
asset or liability in respect of employee service in
previous years.
Remeasurements of the net defined-benefit asset or
liability comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return
on plan assets (excluding interest) and the effect of the
asset ceiling (excluding interest). The company

Statements 11.1.9

recognizes all remeasurements in Other comprehensive
income.

period represents the movement in cumulative expense
recognized at the beginning and end of that period.

The company recognizes gains and losses on the
settlement of a defined-benefit plan when the
settlement occurs. The gain or loss on settlement is the
difference between the present value of the definedbenefit obligation being settled, as determined on the
date of settlement, and the settlement price, including
any plan assets transferred and any payments made
directly by the company in connection with the
settlement. In this respect, the amount of the plan
assets transferred is adjusted for the effect of the asset
ceiling. Past service costs arising from the introduction
of a change to the benefit payable under a plan or a
significant reduction of the number of employees
covered by a plan (curtailment) are recognized in full in
the Consolidated statements of income.

Service and non-market performance conditions are
not taken into account when determining the grantdate fair value of awards, but the likelihood of the
conditions being met is assessed as part of the
company’s best estimate of the number of equity
instruments that will ultimately vest. Market
performance conditions are reflected within the grantdate fair value. No expense is recognized for awards
that do not ultimately vest because non-market
performance and/or service conditions have not been
met.

Further information on post-employment benefit
accounting can be found in Post-employment benefits,
starting on page 156.
Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured
on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the
related service is provided. The company recognizes a
liability and an expense for bonuses and incentives
based on a formula that takes into consideration the
profit attributable to the company’s shareholders after
certain adjustments.
The company’s net obligation in respect of long-term
employee benefits is the amount of future benefit that
employees have earned in return for their service in the
current and prior periods, such as jubilee entitlements.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present
value. Remeasurements are recognized in the
Consolidated statements of income in the period in
which they arise.
Further information on other employee benefits can be
found in Provisions, starting on page 153 in the Other
provisions section.
Share-based payment
Equity-settled transactions
The cost of equity-settled transactions is determined by
the fair value at the date when the grant is made using
an appropriate valuation model, further details of which
are given in Share-based compensation, starting on
page 163.
The grant-date fair value of equity-settled share-based
payment awards granted to employees is recognized as
personnel expense, with a corresponding increase in
equity, over the vesting period of the award. The
cumulative expense recognized for equity-settled
transactions at each reporting date until the vesting
date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has
expired and the company’s best estimate of the number
of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The
expense or credit in the statement of profit or loss for a

When an award is cancelled by the entity or by the
counterparty, any remaining element of the fair value of
the award is expensed immediately through profit or
loss. The dilutive effect of outstanding options and
shares is reflected as additional share dilution in the
computation of diluted earnings per share (further
details are given in Earnings per share, starting on page
142).
Financial income and expenses
Financial income comprises interest income on funds
invested (including financial assets), dividend income,
net gains on the disposal of financial assets, net fair
value gains on financial assets at fair value through
profit or loss, net gains on the remeasurement to fair
value of any pre-existing interest in an acquiree, and
net gains on foreign exchange impacts that are
recognized in the Consolidated statements of income.
Interest income is recognized on an accrual basis in the
Consolidated statements of income, using the effective
interest method. Dividend income is recognized in the
Consolidated statements of income on the date that the
company’s right to receive payment is established,
which in the case of quoted securities is normally the
ex-dividend date.
Financial expenses comprise interest expenses on
borrowings, unwinding of the discount on provisions
and contingent consideration, losses on disposal of
financial assets, net fair value losses on financial assets
at fair value through profit or loss, impairment losses
recognized on financial assets (other than trade
receivables), net interest expenses related to definedbenefit plans and net losses on foreign exchange
impacts that are recognized in the Consolidated
statements of income.
Further information on financial income and expenses
can be found in Financial income and expenses,
starting on page 138.
Government grants
Grants from governments are recognized at their fair
value where there is a reasonable assurance that the
grant will be received and the company will comply
with all attached conditions. Government grants relating
to costs are deferred and recognized in the
Consolidated statements of income as a reduction of
Annual Report 2018

123

Statements 11.1.9

the related costs over the period necessary to match
them with the costs that they are intended to
compensate. Grants related to assets are deducted
from the cost of the asset and presented net in the
Consolidated balance sheets.
Financial guarantees
The company recognizes a liability at the fair value of
the obligation at the inception of a financial guarantee
contract if it is probable that an outflow of resources
embodying economic benefits will be required to settle
the obligation. The guarantee is subsequently
measured at the higher of the best estimate of the
obligation or the amount initially recognized less, when
appropriate, cumulative amortization.
Cash flow statements
Cash flows arising from transactions in a foreign
currency are translated into the company’s functional
currency using the exchange rate at the date of the cash
flow. Cash flows from derivative instruments that are
accounted for as cash flow hedges are classified in the
same category as the cash flows from the hedged
items. Cash flows from other derivative instruments are
classified as investing cash flows.
Segment information
Operating segments are components of the company’s
business activities about which separate financial
information is available that is evaluated regularly by
the chief operating decision maker (the Executive
Committee of the company). The Executive Committee
decides how to allocate resources and assesses
performance. Reportable segments comprise the
operating segments Diagnosis & Treatment businesses,
Connected Care & Health Informatics businesses,
Personal Health businesses and Other. Segment
accounting policies are the same as the accounting
policies applied by the company.
Earnings per Share
The company presents basic and diluted earnings per
share (EPS) data for its common shares. Basic EPS is
calculated by dividing the Net income (loss) attributable
to shareholders by the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding during the period, adjusted
for own shares held. Diluted EPS is determined by
adjusting the Net income (loss) attributable to
shareholders and the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding during the period, adjusted
for own shares held, for the effects of all dilutive
potential common shares, which comprises forward
purchase contracts, restricted shares, performance
shares and share options granted to employees.
Further information on earnings per share can be found
in Earnings per share, starting on page 142.

124

Annual Report 2018

New standards and interpretations
IFRS accounting standards adopted as from 2018
The company applies, for the first time, IFRS 15 Revenue
from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 9 Financial
instruments. The impact of the adoption of these new
standards is disclosed below. Other amendments and
interpretations applied for the first time in 2018, but did
not have a material impact on the consolidated financial
statements of the company.
Impact on the financial statements
As explained below, IFRS 15 was adopted using the
modified retrospective approach and IFRS 9 was
adopted retrospectively with the exception of certain
aspects of hedge accounting. As a result, for IFRS 15 the
reclassifications and adjustments arising from the
changes in the company’s accounting policies are not
reflected in a restated Consolidated balance sheets as
at December 31, 2017, but are recognized in the opening
Consolidated balance sheets on January 1, 2018. For
IFRS 9, the company has taken an exemption not to
restate comparative information for prior periods with
respect to classification and measurement
requirements. Accordingly, the information presented
for 2017 does not generally reflect the requirements of
IFRS 9 but rather those of IAS 39.
The following tables show the adjustments recognized
for each individual Consolidated balance sheets
caption. Consolidated balance sheets captions that
were not affected by the changes have not been
included. The adjustments, by standard, are explained
in more detail below.
Balance sheet presentation impact of IFRS 15 adoption in millions of
EUR
Balance sheet
captions
Other noncurrent liabilities

December 31,
2017

Presentation
change 1)

January 1,
2018 2)

474

(249)

226

249

249

Non-current
contract
liabilities
Accrued
liabilities

2,319

(791)

1,528

Other current
liabilities

1,126

(372)

754

1,163

1,163

Current contract
liabilities
1)

The amounts in relation to the IFRS 15 presentation change have
been reclassified to conform to the 31 December 2018
Consolidated balance sheets classification.
2)

Opening balance sheet after IFRS 15 presentation change.

Statements 11.1.9

Balance sheet impact of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 adoption in millions of
EUR
Balance sheet
captions

January 1,
2018 1)

IFRS
15

Current
receivables

3,909

1

3,911

Income tax
receivable

109

1

110

Other current
assets

392

(75)

317

Investments in
associates

142

7

149

Deferred tax
assets

IFRS
9

January 1,
2018

1,598

(5)

1,593

Current contract
liabilities

1,163

(13)

1,150

Non-current
contract liabilities

249

(12)

237

33

(15)

18

11,999

(29)

11,970

Deferred tax
liabilities
Shareholders'
equity
1)

Opening balance sheet after IFRS 15 presentation change, before
other IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 adjustments.

The impact on Retained earnings is as follows:
Retained earnings impact of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 adoption in
millions of EUR
Retained earnings as of December 31, 2017

8,596

IFRS 15 adjustments
Cost of obtaining a contract
Capitalized costs of obtaining a contract
Deferred tax liability

(75)
15

Deferred tax asset

2

Income tax receivable

1

Royalty income
Royalty income - deferred revenue

25

Deferred tax assets

(7)

Current receivables

1

Income tax receivable

1

The above adjustments are based on the company’s
finalized assessments, which do not materially differ
from the amounts disclosed in the Annual Report 2017.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments - impact of adoption
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments brings together the
classification and measurement, impairment and hedge
accounting phases of the IASB’s project to replace IAS
39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement. With the exception of certain aspects of
hedge accounting, which the company applied
prospectively, the company has applied IFRS 9
retrospectively, with the initial application date of
January 1, 2018, and with the practical expedients
permitted under the standard. In accordance with the
transitional provisions included in IFRS 9, comparatives
have not been restated.
As a result of the adoption of IFRS 9, certain financial
assets amounting to EUR 77 million were reclassified
from measurement at fair value through other
comprehensive income (FVTOCI) to fair value through
profit or loss (FVTPL). The related fair value gains of
EUR 4 million were transferred from the fair value
through OCI reserve to retained earnings as per January
1, 2018. In addition, EUR 47 million of factored trade
receivables were transferred from measurement at
amortized cost to measurement at FVTOCI. The
adoption of IFRS 9 did not result in any further material
impact on the Consolidated balance sheets,
Consolidated statements of income, Consolidated
statements of comprehensive income or the basic and
diluted EPS. The effect of the adoption of IFRS 9 on the
Consolidated balance sheets and retained earnings is
disclosed above.

Investment in associates
Investments in associates

7

IFRS 9 adjustments
Transfer from financial assets fair value through
OCI reserve
Opening balance Retained earnings as of
January 1, 2018

4
8,571

Annual Report 2018

125

Statements 11.1.9

Classification and measurement
As per January 1, 2018, the company assessed which business models apply to the financial assets held by the company
and has classified its financial instruments into the appropriate IFRS 9 categories. The main effects resulting from this
reclassification on the company’s other non-current financial assets are as follows:

Impact of IFRS 9 on other non-current financial assets in millions of EUR
Other non-current financial
assets
FVTOCI 1)
Amortized cost 2)
Closing balance as of December
31, 2017 - IAS 39

446

Reclassify investments from
available-for-sale to FVTPL

(77)

Reclassify held-to-maturity
investments to amortized cost
Opening balance as of January 1,
2018 - IFRS 9

114

369

Previously reported as available-for-sale financial assets

2)

Previously reported as loans and receivables.

FVTPL

Total

1

27

587

77
1

1)

Held-to-maturity
investments

114

(1)
104

587

Certain investments previously accounted for as available-for-sale financial assets (FVTOCI) do not meet the IFRS 9
criteria for classification at FVTOCI or amortized cost, because their cash flows do not represent solely payments of
principal and interest, and are therefore measured at FVTPL under IFRS 9. Related fair value gains of EUR 4 million were
transferred from the fair value through OCI reserve to retained earnings on January 1, 2018. During 2018, net fair value
losses of EUR 3 million relating to these investments were recognized in the Consolidated statements of income.
The investments previously accounted for as held-to-maturity financial assets continue to be measured at amortized cost
under IFRS 9.

126

Annual Report 2018

Statements 11.1.9

In addition to the impact on the classification of Other
non-current financial assets, IFRS 9 impacted the
classification of certain trade receivables which are part
of Current receivables. The business model for factored
trade receivables, amounting to EUR 47 million, is to
collect and sell, and hence under IFRS 9 these financial
assets were reclassified from assets measured at
amortized cost to assets measured at FVTOCI.
Hedge accounting
The company completed updates to its internal
documentation and monitoring processes and
concluded that all existing hedge relationships
previously designated as effective hedging relationships
continued to qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS 9.
The impact of changes in fair value of foreign exchange
forward contracts attributable to forward points and
changes in the time value of the option contracts, which
under IFRS 9 are deferred in the cash flow hedges
reserve within equity, is not material. As at December 31,
2018, a loss of EUR 6 million was included in the cash
flow hedges reserve in relation to these changes in fair
value of foreign exchange forward contracts attributable
to forward points and changes in the time value of the
option contracts.
Impairment of financial assets
The company revised its impairment methodology
under IFRS 9 for each of its classes of assets that are
subject to the IFRS 9 expected credit loss model.
Trade receivables, contract assets and lease
receivables
The company applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach in
measuring expected credit losses, which uses a lifetime
expected loss allowance for all trade receivables,
contract assets and lease receivables. The company did
not identify a material increase in the loss allowance for
trade receivables, contract assets and lease receivables
as a result of the adoption.
Debt investments
All of the company’s other debt investments at
amortized cost and FVTOCI are considered to have low
credit risk, and the loss allowance recognized during the
period was therefore limited to 12 months expected
losses. The company considers ‘low credit risk’ for listed
bonds to be an investment-grade credit rating with at
least one major rating agency. Other instruments are
considered to be low credit risk when they have a low
risk of default and the issuer has a strong capacity to
meet its contractual cash flow obligations in the near
term. The restatement of the loss allowance for debt
investments at amortized cost and FVTOCI on transition
to IFRS 9 as a result of applying the expected credit risk
model was immaterial.
While Cash and cash equivalents are also subject to the
impairment requirements of IFRS 9, the identified
impairment loss was immaterial.

IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers impact of adoption
The company has adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from
Contracts with Customers from January 1, 2018, using
the modified retrospective approach and has adjusted
the cumulative impact of adoption in opening retained
earnings as of January 1, 2018. Accordingly,
comparatives have not been restated. The standard has
only been applied to contracts that were not completed
by January 1, 2018. The effect of adoption of IFRS 15 on
the Consolidated balance sheets and retained earnings
is disclosed above.
During 2018, EUR 18,121 million of revenues were
recognized under IFRS 15. If IAS 18 had been applied
during this period, revenues would have amounted to
EUR 18,070 million. The difference relates to the timing
of revenue recognition on IP Royalties, as explained
below. The impact of the accounting on the costs of
obtaining a contract, as also explained below, did not
materially affect 2018 results under IFRS 15 compared to
IAS 18.
Costs of obtaining a contract
Under IFRS 15, the incremental costs of obtaining a
contract with a customer are recognized as an asset if
the entity expects to recover them. The company
identified that certain sales commissions paid to third
parties and internal employees that are typical of
transactions in the segments Diagnosis & Treatment and
Connected Care & Health Informatics qualify as
incremental costs of obtaining a contract. These costs
were mostly paid and capitalized as prepayment upon
issuance of sales orders and recognition of revenue
related to the sale of goods or rendering of services.
Such costs were commonly expensed in line with the
revenue recognition pattern of the related goods or
services. Due to these sales commissions being largely
amortized within a year, the company decided to adopt
the practical expedient of expensing sales commissions
when incurred.
An impact of EUR 75 million was recorded as a retained
earnings decrease in equity originating from the asset
derecognition upon transition, and a net deferred tax
benefit of EUR 17 million was recorded through retained
earnings as a consequence. The net impact in equity
was EUR 57 million.
Royalty income
In prior years, the company recognized revenue from
intellectual property (IP) royalties, which is normally
generated based on a percentage of sales or a fixed
amount per product sold, on an accrual basis based on
actual or reliably estimated sales made by the
licensees. Revenue generated from an agreement with
lump-sum consideration was recognized over time
based on the contractual terms and substance of the
relevant agreement with a licensee. In 2018, under IFRS
15, revenues from the licensing of intellectual property
were recognized based on a right to access the
intellectual property or a right to use the intellectual
property. Under the first option, revenue is recognized
over time while under the second option revenue is
Annual Report 2018

127

Statements 11.1.9

recognized at a point in time. As a result, this had an
impact on revenues originating from the company’s IP
royalties with lump-sum considerations that are rightto-use licenses since under IFRS 15 such revenues are
recognized in the Consolidated statements of income at
an earlier point in time rather than over time, as under
the previous methodology.
As a result, an amount of EUR 25 million of deferred
revenue was recorded as an increase in retained
earnings upon transition. Additionally, IP royalties
related to an associate had a similar accounting impact;
hence an amount of EUR 7 million was recorded as an
increase in retained earnings upon transition. A total
deferred tax asset of EUR 7 million was released as a
consequence. The net impact in equity was EUR 27
million.
Presentation
The company has changed the presentation of certain
amounts in the Consolidated balance sheets to reflect
the terminology of IFRS 15. Contract liabilities are
presented separately on the Consolidated balance
sheets for its current and non-current portion and
represent amounts posted in deferred revenue for
which the goods or services have not yet been
transferred to the customer and amounts have either
been received or are due. They were part of Accrued
liabilities and Other non-current liabilities as of
December 31, 2017.
IFRS accounting standards to be adopted from 2019
onwards
A number of new standards, amendments to existing
standards, and interpretations have been published and
are mandatory for the company beginning on or after
January 1, 2019, or later periods, and the company has
not early-adopted them. Those which may be the most
relevant to the company are set out below. Changes to
other standards, arising from amendments,
interpretations and the annual improvement cycles, are
not expected to have a material impact on the
company’s financial statements.
IFRS 16 Leases
IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016 and is endorsed by
the EU. It will supersede IAS 17 Leases and a number of
lease-related interpretations and will result in almost all
leases being recognized on the Consolidated balance
sheets, as the distinction between operating and
finance leases is removed for lessees. Under the new
standard, both an asset (the right to use the leased
item) and a financial liability to pay rentals are
recognized. The only exceptions are short-term and

128

Annual Report 2018

low-value leases. The accounting for lessors will not
change significantly for the company.
As at the reporting date, the company has identified
non-cancellable operating lease commitments of
approximately EUR 870 million (undiscounted) which
are relevant for IFRS 16 adoption. The company expects
to recognize right-of-use assets of approximately EUR
760 million from the identified operating lease
commitments, a discounted lease liability of
approximately EUR 800 million and deferred tax assets
of approximately EUR 5 million on January 1, 2019. In
addition, the existing finance lease assets and liabilities
determined as per IAS 17 with a carrying value of
approximately EUR 330 million each as at December 31,
2018 will be reclassified and added to the right-of-use
asset and lease liability determined as per IFRS 16 on
January 1, 2019.
If the lease portfolio and other parameters remain
similar during the year 2019 compared to the status per
January 1, 2019, then the impact of IFRS 16 on Income
from operations is not expected to be material as the
increase in depreciation and financial expense would
be largely offset by the decrease in operating lease
expense. Similarly, in 2019 operating cash flows are
expected to increase and financing cash flows decrease
by approximately EUR 150 million as repayment of the
principal portion of the lease liabilities will be classified
as cash flows from financing activities, while previously
the operating lease payments were classified as cash
flows from operating activities.
The company will adopt the standard as of January 1,
2019. Philips will apply the modified retrospective
approach. Therefore, the cumulative effect of adopting
IFRS 16 of approximately EUR 35 million will be
recognized as an adjustment to the opening balance of
retained earnings on January 1, 2019, with no
restatement of comparative information. The company
will elect to apply the standard to contracts that were
previously identified as leases applying IAS 17 and IFRIC
4. The company will therefore not apply the new
standard to contracts that were not previously identified
as containing a lease applying IAS 17 and IFRIC 4. The
company will elect to use the exemptions proposed by
the standard on lease contracts for which the lease
terms ends within 12 months as of the date of initial
application and lease contracts for which the underlying
asset is of low value. The company will rely on its
assessment of whether leases are onerous applying IAS
37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent
Assets and accordingly adjust its right-of-use asset.

Statements 11.1.9

2

Information by segment and main country
Philips Group
Information on income statements in millions of EUR unless otherwise stated
2016 - 2018
sales

sales including intercompany

depreciation and amortization 1)

Adjusted EBITA 2)

Diagnosis & Treatment

7,245

7,364

(302)

838

Connected Care & Health
Informatics

3,084

3,126

(176)

341

Personal Health

7,228

7,240

(367)

1,215

674

(244)

(28)

2018

Other

564

Inter-segment eliminations
Philips Group

(282)
18,121

18,121

(1,089)

2,366

Diagnosis & Treatment

6,891

6,953

(267)

716

Connected Care & Health
Informatics

3,163

3,200

(208)

372

Personal Health

7,310

7,333

(371)

1,221

564

(179)

(157)

2017

Other

416

Inter-segment eliminations
Philips Group

(269)
17,780

17,780

(1,025)

2,153

6,686

6,741

(229)

631

3,158

3,213

(184)

324

7,099

7,119

(385)

1,108

641

(179)

(142)

(976)

1,921

2016
Diagnosis & Treatment
Connected Care & Health
Informatics
Personal Health
Other

479

Inter-segment eliminations
Philips Group

(292)
17,422

17,422

1)

Includes impairments; for impairment values please refer to Property, plant and equipment, starting on page 143 and Intangible assets
excluding goodwill, starting on page 146
2)

For reconciliation Adjusted EBITA, refer to the table below.

As required by IFRS 8 Operating Segments, Philips
operating segments are Diagnosis & Treatment
businesses, Connected Care & Health Informatics
businesses and Personal Health businesses, each being
responsible for the management of its business
worldwide. Due to the divestment and deconsolidation
of businesses in 2017, Legacy Items no longer require
separate disclosure. Therefore, as from January 1, 2018,
HealthTech Other and Legacy Items are combined into
Other. Prior-period comparatives have been adjusted to
conform with current presentation. From 2017, Signify is
reported as part of Discontinued Operations (refer to
note 3, Discontinued operations and assets classified as
held for sale, starting on page 131).
Philips focuses on improving people’s lives through
meaningful innovation across the health continuum –
from healthy living and prevention to diagnosis,
treatment and home care. The Diagnosis & Treatment
businesses deliver precision medicine and leastinvasive treatment and therapy to improve outcomes,
lower the cost of care delivery and enhance the patient
experience. The Connected Care & Health Informatics
businesses deliver digital solutions that facilitate valuebased care through consumer technology, patient
monitoring and clinical informatics. The Personal Health
businesses deliver integrated, connected solutions that

support healthier lifestyles and those living with chronic
disease.
The Executive Committee of Philips is deemed to be the
chief operating decision maker (CODM) for IFRS 8
segment reporting purposes. The key segmental
performance measure is Adjusted EBITA, which
Management believes is the most relevant measure to
evaluate the results of the segments.
The term Adjusted EBITA is used to evaluate the
performance of Philips and its segments. EBITA
represents Income from operations excluding
amortization and impairment of acquired intangible
assets and impairment of goodwill. Adjusted EBITA
represents EBITA excluding gains or losses from
restructuring costs, acquisition-related charges and
other items.
Adjusted EBITA is not a recognized measure of financial
performance under IFRS. Below is a reconciliation of
Adjusted EBITA to the most directly comparable IFRS
measure, Net income, for the years indicated. Net
income is not allocated to segments as certain income
and expense line items are monitored on a centralized
basis, resulting in them being shown on a Philips Group
level only.

Annual Report 2018

129

Statements 11.1.9

Philips Group
Reconciliation from net income to Adjusted EBITA In millions of EUR unless otherwise stated
2016 - 2018
Diagnosis &
Treatment

Connected Care
& Health
Informatics

1,719

600

347

97

2,066

Personal
Health

Other

179

1,045

(105)

46

126

79

696

225

1,171

(27)

258

142

59

26

31

41

-

56

18

(33)

2,366

838

341

1,215

(28)

Philips Group
2018
Net Income

1,097

Discontinued operations, net of income taxes

213

Income tax expense

193

Investments in associates, net of income taxes
Financial expenses
Financial income
Income from operations
Amortization of intangible assets
EBITA
Restructuring and acquisition-related charges
Other items
Adjusted EBITA

2
264
(51)

2017
Net Income

1,870

Discontinued operations, net of income taxes

(843)

Income tax expense
Investments in associates, net of income taxes
Financial expenses

349
4
263

Financial income

(126)

Income from operations

1,517

488

206

1,075

(252)

Amortization of intangible assets

260

55

44

135

26

1,787

543

250

1,211

(217)

316

151

91

11

64

50

22

31

2,153

716

372

1,221

(157)

1,464

546

275

953

(310)

242

48

46

139

9
(301)

Impairment of goodwill
EBITA
Restructuring and acquisition-related charges
Other items
Adjusted EBITA

9

9

(3)

2016
Net Income
Discontinued operations, net of income taxes
Income tax expense
Investments in associates, net of income taxes
Financial expenses
Financial income
Income from operations
Amortization of intangible assets
Impairment of goodwill
EBITA
Restructuring and acquisition-related charges
Other items
Adjusted EBITA

1,491
(660)
203
(11)
507
(65)

1

1

1,707

594

322

1,092

94

37

14

16

120
1,921

(12)
631

324

27
132

1,108

(142)

Transactions between the segments are mainly related to components and parts included in the product portfolio of the
other segments. The pricing of such transactions was at cost or determined on an arm’s length basis. Philips has no single
external customer that represents 10% or more of sales.

130

Annual Report 2018

Statements 11.1.9

Philips Group
Main countries in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
sales 1)

tangible and intangible assets 2)

2018
Netherlands

510

1,666

United States

6,050

9,493

China

2,380

353

Japan

1,045

491

Germany

1,032

263

France

519

30

South Korea

498

3

Other countries

6,087

1,506

Total main countries

18,121

13,805

2017
Netherlands

414

1,154

6,084

8,408

China

2,322

959

Japan

1,059

457

Germany

1,011

270

France

530

33

India

425

100

United States

Other countries
Total main countries

5,935

1,263

17,780

12,644

2016
Netherlands

393

1,007

United States

5,948

9,425

China

2,210

1,167

Japan

1,103

492

Germany

965

201

France
India
Other countries
Total main countries

3

1)

The sales are reported based on country of destination.

2)

Consists of Property plant and equipment, Intangible assets excluding goodwill and Goodwill

Discontinued operations and assets classified as held
for sale
Discontinued operations consist primarily of our
retained shareholding in Signify (formerly Philips
Lighting), the combined Lumileds and Automotive
businesses and certain other divestments formerly
reported as discontinued operations. The below table
summarizes the discontinued operations, net of income
taxes results reported in the consolidated statements of
income.
Philips Group
Discontinued operations, net of income taxes in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
2016

2017

2018

Signify

244

896

(198)

The combined Lumileds and
Automotive businesses

282

(29)

12

Other

134

(24)

(27)

660

843

(213)

Discontinued operations, net of
income taxes

513

45

399

121

5,891

2,147

17,422

14,605

Signify
As from December 31, 2018, Philips is no longer able to
exercise significant influence with respect to Signify. The
results related to Philips' retained interest in Signify until
the moment the company lost significant influence are
recognized in discontinued operations. These results
relate to an overall EUR 198 million loss, which reflects
dividends received of EUR 32 million and a loss due to
value adjustments of EUR 218 million.
As of December 31, 2018 the remaining shareholding in
Signify is part of continued operations. For further
details, please refer to Interest in entities, starting on
page 134.
The following table, summarizes the results of Signify
included in the Consolidated statements of income as
discontinued operations.

Annual Report 2018

131

Statements 11.1.9

Results of Signify in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
Sales
Costs and expenses

2016

2017

7,094

6,319

(6,726)

(5,776)

Result on the deconsolidation of
discontinued operations

2018
(18)

538

Fair value adjustment retained
interest

(104)

(218)

Dividend income

32

Income before tax

368

977

(204)

Income tax expense

(124)

(150)

7

Income tax on the
deconsolidation of discontinued
operations

61

US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
Results from discontinued
operations

8
244

896

(198)

Discontinued operations: Combined Lumileds and
Automotive businesses
On June 30, 2017, Philips completed the sale of an
80.1% interest in the combined Lumileds and
Automotive businesses to certain funds managed by
affiliates of Apollo Global Management, LLC. In the first
quarter of 2018 we reached a final settlement resulting
in a gain of EUR 8 million.
The combined businesses of Lumileds and Automotive
were reported as discontinued operations as from the
end of November 2014.
For details on the retained interest in the combined
Lumileds and Automotive businesses we refer to Other
financial assets, starting on page 147.
The following table summarizes the results of the
combined businesses of Lumileds and Automotive in
the Consolidated statements of income as discontinued
operations.
Philips Group
Results of combined Lumileds and Automotive businesses in
millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
Sales
Costs and expenses

2016

2017

1,711

804

(1,376)

(630)

Result on the sale of
discontinued operations

2018
5

(98)

8

Income before tax

335

76

13

Income tax expense

(53)

(25)

(1)

Income tax on the sale of
discontinued operations

26

US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 1)
Results from discontinued
operations

(107)
282

(29)

12

The main result in 2016 related to the court decision in
favor of Philips in an arbitration case against Funai
Electric Co., Ltd. Philips started the arbitration after it
terminated the agreement to transfer the Audio, Video,
Media & Accessories business to Funai following a
breach of contract by Funai. As a consequence the
court ordered Funai to pay EUR 144 million, which
includes disbursements and interest, as compensation
for damages. The amount was received in the second
quarter of 2016.
Discontinued operations cash flows
The following table presents the net cash flows of
operating, investing and financing activities reported in
the Consolidated cash flow statements related to
discontinued operations.
Discontinued operations cash flows in millions of EUR
2016 -2018
2016

2017

2018

Cash flows from operating
activities

1,037

350

(15)

Cash flows from investing
activities

(112)

856

662

Cash flows from financing
activities

1,226

(144)

Total discontinued operations
cash flows

2,151

1,063

647

In 2018, discontinued operations cash flows mainly
include EUR 642 million related to the sale of Signify
shares and dividend received from Signify reported in
investing activities. The sale of Signify shares in 2017
(prior to losing control) are included in cash flows from
financing activities of continuing operations.
In 2017, cash flows from operating activities reflect the
period prior to the divestment of the combined
Lumileds and Automotive businesses (six months of
cash flows) and prior to the deconsolidation of Signify
(eleven months of cash flows). In 2017, cash flows from
investing activities includes the net cash outflow related
to the deconsolidation of Signify of EUR 175 million,
consisting of EUR 545 million proceeds from the sale of
shares on November 28, 2017, offset by the
deconsolidation of EUR 720 million of cash and cash
equivalents, and proceeds of EUR 1,067 million received
from the sale of the combined Lumileds and
Automotive businesses.
Assets classified as held for sale
As of December 31, 2018, assets held for sale consisted
of property, plant and equipment for an amount of EUR
23 million, and assets and liabilities directly associated
with assets-held-for-sale businesses of EUR 52 million.

1)

For further details related to US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act please
refer to Income Taxes, starting on page 138.

Discontinued operations: Other
Certain other divestments reported as discontinued
operations, resulted in a net loss of EUR 27 million in
2018 (2017: a net loss of EUR 24 million; 2016: a net gain
of EUR 134 million).

132

Annual Report 2018

As of December 31, 2017, assets held for sale consisted
of the retained interest in Signify for an amount of EUR
1,264 million, property, plant and equipment for an
amount of EUR 40 million, and assets and liabilities
directly associated with assets held for sale businesses
of EUR 44 million.

Statements 11.1.9

4

Acquisitions and divestments
2018
Philips completed nine acquisitions in 2018. The
acquisitions involved an aggregated net cash outflow of
EUR 476 million and a contingent consideration of EUR
366 million at fair value. The aggregated impact on
Goodwill and Other intangible assets was EUR 430
million and EUR 443 million respectively.
EPD Solutions Ltd. (EPD) was the most notable
acquisition and is discussed below. The remaining eight
acquisitions involved an aggregated net cash outflow of
EUR 228 million and a contingent consideration of EUR
127 million at fair value. Separately, the net cash outflow
ranged from EUR 2 million to EUR 90 million. These
remaining acquisitions had an aggregated impact on
Goodwill and Other intangible assets of EUR 168 million
and EUR 216 million respectively.
EPD
On July 9, 2018 Philips acquired 100% of the
outstanding shares of EPD for an upfront cash
consideration of EUR 250 million and a contingent
consideration, which may be due between December
31, 2018 and December 31, 2030. In connection with the
contingent consideration, the company recognized a
Long-term provision of EUR 239 million at closing of the
transaction. The estimated fair value of the contingent
consideration is re-measured at each reporting period.
Therefore, any changes in the fair value impacts
reported earnings in each reporting period, thereby
resulting in variability in earnings. For more details
about the fair value measurements please refer to Fair
value of financial assets and liabilities, starting on page
170. The overall cash position of EPD on the transaction
date was EUR 2 million.
EPD is an innovator in image-guided procedures for
cardiac arrhythmias (heart rhythm disorders). As of the
date of acquisition, EPD is part of the Diagnosis &
Treatment segment.
Acquisition-related costs of EUR 6 million were
recognized in General and administrative expenses.
The condensed opening balance sheet of EPD as of
July 9, 2018 was as follows:
EPD
Opening Balance sheet in millions of EUR
2018
2018
at acquisition date
Goodwill

262

Intangible assets excluding goodwill

227

Cash

2

Accounts payable and other payables

(2)

Provision for contingent consideration

(239)

Total assets and liabilities
Financed by equity

250
(250)

Opening balance positions are subject to final purchase
price adjustments, which are expected to be processed
in the second quarter of 2019. Main pending final
purchase price adjustments concerns Other Intangible
assets (Technology).
Goodwill recognized in the amount of EUR 262 million,
mainly represents expected revenue synergies
leveraging the complementarity between EPD’s cardiac
imaging and navigation system solutions and Philips'
interventional imaging systems.
Other intangible assets comprised of EUR 227 million of
Technology, amortized over 10 years.
The fair value of Technology is determined using the
multi-period excess earnings method, which is a
valuation technique that estimates the fair value of an
asset based on market participants' expectations of the
cash flows associated with that asset over its remaining
useful life. The fair value of Technology is based on an
estimate of positive future cash flows associated with
incremental profits related to excess earnings until 2032,
discounted at a rate of 14.4%.
As from acquisition date, the contribution of EPD to
revenue and net income in 2018 was not material.
Divestments
Philips completed two divestments in 2018. The
divestments involved an aggregated cash consideration
of EUR 68 million.
2017
Philips completed ten acquisitions in 2017. The
acquisitions involved an aggregated net cash outflow of
EUR 2,333 million. Including 2018 purchase price
adjustments, these acquisitions had an aggregated
impact on Goodwill and Other intangible assets of EUR
1,584 million and EUR 898 million respectively.
The Spectranetics Corporation (Spectranetics) was the
most notable acquisition and is discussed below. The
remaining nine acquisitions involved an aggregated net
cash outflow of EUR 425 million. Separately, the net
cash outflow ranged from EUR 3 million to EUR 117
million. Including 2018 purchase price adjustments,
these remaining acquisitions had an aggregated impact
on Goodwill and Other intangible assets of EUR 317
million and EUR 228 million respectively.
On August 9, 2017 Philips completed the acquisition of
Spectranetics, by acquiring all of the issued and
outstanding shares of Spectranetics for USD 38.50 per
share, paid in cash at completion. As of the date of
acquisition, Spectranetics became a wholly owned
subsidiary of Philips and was consolidated within
Philips Image-Guided Therapy business as part of the
Diagnosis & Treatment businesses segment.
Spectranetics is a US-based global leader in vascular
intervention and lead management solutions, present in
11 countries and employs over 900 employees.

Annual Report 2018

133

Statements 11.1.9

The acquisition involved a net cash outflow of EUR
1,908 million. This amount comprised the purchase
price of shares (EUR 1,441 million), the settlement of
share-based compensation plans (EUR 94 million), the
redemption of debt (EUR 378 million) and the
settlement of various other items (EUR 48 million). The
overall cash position of Spectranetics on the transaction
date was EUR 53 million.
The condensed opening balance sheet of
Spectranetics, including minor final purchase price
adjustments which were processed in the course of
2018, was as follows:

Intangible assets excluding
goodwill
Property, plant and equipment
Deferred tax assets

Legal entity name

1,266
670
64
136

Inventories

35

Receivables and other current
assets

42

Cash

53

Accounts payable and other
payables
Deferred tax liabilities
Total assets and liabilities
Financed by equity

(53)
(253)

Divestments
Apart from the sale of the combined Lumileds and
Automotive businesses and the deconsolidation of
Signify, Philips completed two divestments during 2017
at an aggregate cash consideration of EUR 54 million.
Interests in entities
In this section we discuss the nature of the company’s
interests in its consolidated entities and associates, and
the effects of those interests on the company’s financial
position and financial performance.
Transactions in Signify shares
In 2018, Philips completed various transactions in
Signify shares (formerly Philips Lighting) which reduced
the interest in this company from 29.01% as of
December 31, 2017 to 16.5% as of December 31, 2018.
In February 2018, Philips sold 16.22 million shares
through an accelerated bookbuild offering to
institutional investors. Subsequently, during the fourth
quarter of 2018, Philips sold a total of 4.04 million
shares.
Given Philips’ shareholding in Signify of 16.5%, with
Philips’ CFO stepping down from the Supervisory Board
of Signify as of December 31, 2018, the remaining stake
was reclassified from Assets classified as held-for-sale

134

Annual Report 2018

Philips (China) Investment
Company, Ltd.
Philips Medizin Systeme
Böblingen GmbH
Philips GmbH
Philips Consumer Lifestyle B.V.
Philips Medical Systems
Nederland B.V.

Principal country of business
China
Germany
Germany
Netherlands
Netherlands

Philips Ultrasound, Inc.

United States

Philips Oral Healthcare, LLC

United States

Philips North America LLC

United States

Respironics, Inc.

United States

1,960
(1,960)

The purchase price adjustments recognized in 2018 for
all other acquisitions on Goodwill and Other intangible
assets was EUR 24 million increase and EUR 24 million
reduction respectively.

5

Group companies
Set out below is a list of material subsidiaries as per
December 31, 2018 representing greater than 5% of
either the consolidated group Sales, Income from
operations or Income from continuing operations
(before any intra-group eliminations) of Group legal
entities. All of the entities are fully consolidated in the
group accounts of the company.
Philips Group
Interests in group companies in alphabetical order
2018

Spectranetics
Opening Balance sheet as of acquisition date in millions of EUR
Goodwill

to Current financial assets, with fair value changes
recognized through OCI.

Information related to Non-controlling interests
As of December 31, 2018, six consolidated subsidiaries
are not wholly owned by Philips (December 31, 2017:
four). In 2018, Sales to third parties and Net income for
these subsidiaries in aggregate are EUR 627 million and
EUR 27 million respectively.
Investments in associates
Philips has investments in a number of associates. None
of them are regarded as individually material. During
2018, Philips purchased ten investments in associates,
which involved an aggregated amount of EUR 107
million.
Involvement with unconsolidated structured entities
Philips founded three Philips Medical Capital (PMC)
entities, in the United States, France and Germany, in
which Philips holds a minority interest. Philips Medical
Capital, LLC in the United States is the most significant
entity. PMC entities provide healthcare equipment
financing and leasing services to Philips customers for
diagnostic imaging equipment, patient monitoring
equipment, and clinical IT systems.
The company concluded that it does not control, and
therefore should not consolidate the PMC entities. In
the United States, PMC operates as a subsidiary of De
Lage Landen Financial Services, Inc. The same structure
and treatment is applied to the PMC entities in the
other countries, with other majority shareholders.
Operating agreements are in place for all PMC entities,
whereby acceptance of sales and financing transactions
resides with the respective majority shareholder. After
acceptance of a transaction by PMC, Philips transfers
control and does not retain any obligations towards
PMC or its customers, from the sales contracts.

Statements 11.1.9

At December 31, 2018, Philips’ stake in Philips Medical
Capital, LLC had a carrying value of EUR 24 million
(December 31, 2017: EUR 29 million).

Sales composition and disaggregation
Philips Group
Sales composition in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018

The company does not have any material exposures to
losses from interests in unconsolidated structured
entities other than the invested amounts.
6

Goods
Services

3,477

3,325

375

329

402
17,784
338

Sales
1)

2016

2017

2018

17,422

17,780

18,121
(4,826)

(5,030)

(4,918)

Employee benefit expenses

(5,298)

(5,824)

(5,827)

Depreciation and amortization

(976)

(1,025)

(1,089)

Shipping and handling

(545)

(602)

(605)

Advertising and promotion

(915)

(939)

(937)

Lease expense 1)

(223)

(227)

(225)

(2,963)

(2,804)

(2,948)

Income from operations

3,478

Other sources 1)

Costs of materials used

Other business income (expenses)

2018
14,056

Total sales from contracts with
customers

Philips Group
Sales and costs by nature in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018

Other operational costs 2)

2017
13,974

Royalties

Income from operations
For information related to Sales on a segment and
geographical basis, see Information by segment and
main country, starting on page 129.

Sales

2016
13,568

(6)

76

55

1,464

1,517

1,719

17,422

17,780

18,121

Other sources mainly includes leases

At 31 December 2018, the aggregate amount of the
transaction price allocated to remaining performance
obligations from a sale of goods and services was EUR
10,637 million. The company expects to recognize
approximately 47% of the remaining performance
obligations within 1 year. Revenue expected to be
recognized beyond 1 year is mostly related to longer
term customer service and software contracts.

1)
Lease expense includes EUR 32 million (2017: EUR 38 million,
2016: EUR 30 million) of other costs, such as fuel and electricity,
and taxes to be paid and reimbursed to the lessor
2)
Other operational costs contain items which are dissimilar in
nature and individually insignificant in amount to disclose
separately. These costs contain among others expenses for
outsourcing services, mainly in IT and HR, 3rd party workers,
consultants, warranty, patents, costs for travelling, external legal
services and EUR 81 million government grants recognized in 2018
(2017: EUR 90 million, 2016: EUR 79 million). The grants mainly
relate to research and development activities and business
development.
Philips Group
Disaggregation of Sale per segment in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018

2016

Diagnosis & Treatment
Connected Care & Health
Informatics
Personal Health
Other
Philips Group

2017

2018

Total
sales

Total
sales

Sales at a
point in time

Sales over
time

Total sales
from
contracts
with
customers

Sales from
other
sources 1)

Total sales 2)

6,686

6,891

4,883

2,328

7,212

34

7,245

3,158

3,163

2,124

914

3,038

46

3,084

7,099

7,310

6,952

18

6,969

258

7,228

479

416

310

254

564

-

564

17,422

17,780

14,270

3,514

17,784

338

18,121

1)

Sales from other sources mainly includes leases

2)

Represents revenue from external customers as required by IFRS 8 Operating Segments.

Annual Report 2018

135

Statements 11.1.9

Philips Group
Disaggregation of Sales per geographical cluster in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
2016

Total
sales

2017

2018

Total
sales

Sales over
time

Total sales
from
contracts
with
customers

Sales from
other
sources 1)

Total sales 2)

Sales at a
point in time

Western Europe

3,756

3,802

3,174

781

3,955

35

3,990

North America

6,279

6,409

4,616

1,696

6,311

27

6,338

Other mature geographies

1,792

1,707

1,280

339

1,619

273

1,892

Total mature geographies

11,826

11,918

9,070

2,815

11,885

335

12,221

Growth geographies

5,596

5,862

5,200

699

5,898

2

5,901

Sales

17,422

17,780

14,270

3,514

17,784

338

18,121

1)

Sales from other sources mainly includes leases

2)

Represents revenue from external customers as required by IFRS 8 Operating Segments.

Costs of materials used
Cost of materials used represents the inventory
recognized in cost of sales.

Employees consist of those persons working on the
payroll of Philips and whose costs are reflected in the
Employee benefit expenses table. 3rd party workers
consist of personnel hired on a per-period basis, via
external companies.

Employee benefit expenses
Philips Group
Employee benefit expenses in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
Salaries and wages 1)
Post-employment benefits
costs

2016

2017

2018

4,422

4,856

4,849

279

347

351

- Required by law

489

514

524

- Voluntary

108

108

103

5,298

5,824

5,827

Salaries and wages includes EUR 102 million (2017: EUR 122
million, 2016: EUR 95 million) of share-based compensation
expenses.

The employee benefit expenses relate to employees
who are working on the payroll of Philips, both with
permanent and temporary contracts.
For further information on post-employment benefit
costs, see Post-employment benefits, starting on page
156.
For details on the remuneration of the members of the
Board of Management and the Supervisory Board, see
Information on remuneration, starting on page 166.

Philips Group
Employees in FTEs
2016 - 2018

Other
Employees
3rd party workers
Continuing operations

136

2016

2017

2018

27,899

27,697

30,774
10,700

9,087

9,787

24,565

26,314

26,175

61,552

63,798

67,649

8,050

8,098

7,239

69,602

71,895

74,888

Discontinued operations

43,971

43,497

Philips Group

113,572

115,392

Annual Report 2018

2018
11,427

Other countries

58,403

60,587

63,460

Continuing operations

69,602

71,895

74,888

Discontinued operations

43,971

43,497

Philips Group

113,572

115,392

74,888

Philips Group
Depreciation and amortization 1) in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
Depreciation of property, plant
and equipment
Amortization of software
Amortization of other intangible
assets

2016

2017

2018

458

437

438

49

50

64

244

260

347

Amortization of development
costs

225

277

240

Depreciation and amortization

976

1,025

1,089

1)
Includes impairments; for impairment values please refer to
Property, plant and equipment, starting on page 143 and Intangible
assets excluding goodwill, starting on page 146

Employees
The average number of employees by category is
summarized as follows:

Research & development

2017
11,308

Depreciation and amortization
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and
amortization of intangible assets, including
impairments, are as follows:

1)

Production

2016
11,199

Netherlands

Other social security and similar
charges:

Employee benefit expenses

Philips Group
Employees per geographical location in FTEs
2016 - 2018

74,888

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is
primarily included in cost of sales. Amortization of the
categories of other intangible assets are reported in
selling expenses for brand names and customer
relationships and are reported in cost of sales for
technology based and other intangible assets.
Amortization of development cost is included in
research and development expenses.

Statements 11.1.9

Shipping and handling
Shipping and handling costs are included in cost of sales and selling expenses in Consolidated statements of income,
starting on page 107. Further information on when costs are to be reported to cost of sales or selling expenses can be
found in Significant accounting policies, starting on page 112.
Advertising and promotion
Advertising and promotion costs are included in selling expenses in Consolidated statements of income, starting on page
107.
Audit fees
The table below shows the fees attributable to the fiscal years 2016, 2017 and 2018 for services rendered by the
respective Group auditors.
Philips Group
Agreed fees in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
2016

2017

EY NL 1)

EY
Network

Total

EY NL 1)

EY
Network

Total

EY NL 1)

EY
Network

Total

8.8

9.6

18.4

9.0

8.9

17.9

6.5

4.9

11.3

8.8

4.6

13.4

9.0

4.4

13.4

6.5

5

5.0

0.0

4.5

4.5

Audit fees
-consolidated financial
statements
-statutory financial statements
Audit-related fees 2)

2018

8.8
2.5

0.3

0.9

1.5

0.8

2.3

0.8

0.7

1.5

-Acquisitions and divestments

0.8

0.1

0.9

0.0

0.0

0.0

-Sustainability assurance

0.7

0.0

0.7

0.7

0.0

0.7

0.4

0.7

0.7

0.1

0.7

0.8

0.1

0.3

0.5

10.4

20.7

9.7

9.6

19.4

7.0

5.2

12.2

-Other
Fees
1)

Ernst & Young Accountants LLP

2)

Also known as Assurance fees

10.3

Other business income (expenses)
Other business income (expenses) consists of the
following:

0.5

2.3
2.5

0.4

The result on other remaining businesses mainly relates
to non-core revenue and various legal matters.

Philips Group
Other business income (expenses) in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
2016

2017

2018

Result on disposal of
businesses:
- income

1

15

45

(4)

(5)

-

- income

4

96

20

- expense

(1)

(1)

(1)

- expense
Result on disposal of fixed
assets:

Result on other remaining
businesses:
- income

13

41

23

- expense

(17)

(62)

(32)

(1)

(9)

Impairment of goodwill 1)
Other business income
(expense)
Total other business income
Total other business expense

(6)

76

55

17

152

88

(23)

(76)

(33)

1)

Further information on goodwill movement can be found in
Goodwill, starting on page 144

The result on disposal of businesses was mainly due to
divestment of non-strategic businesses.
The result on disposal of fixed assets was mainly due to
sale of real estate assets.

Annual Report 2018

137

Statements 11.1.9

7

Financial income and expenses

The components of income before taxes and income
tax expense are as follows:

Philips Group
Financial income and expenses in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
Interest income
Interest income from loans and
receivables
Interest income from cash and
cash equivalents

2016

2017

2018

43

40

31

15

12

8

28

28

22

Dividend income from financial
assets

4

64

2

Net gains from disposal of financial
assets

3

1

6

Net change in fair value of financial
assets at fair value through profit or
loss
Other financial income
Financial income
Interest expense
Interest on debt and borrowings
Finance charges under finance
lease contract
Interest expenses - pensions
Provision-related accretion and
interest
Net foreign exchange losses
Impairment loss of financial assets
Net change in fair value of financial
assets at fair value through profit or
loss

7

Income before taxes of
continuing operations 1)

2016

2017

137

929

2018
636

886

451

869

1,023

1,381

1,505

Netherlands:
10

(15)

(25)

Deferred tax (expense) benefit

(95)

(150)

16

Total tax (expense) benefit of
continuing operations
(Netherlands)

(85)

(165)

(9)

(155)

(258)

(289)

37

73

105

(118)

(184)

(184)

(203)

(349)

(193)

15

14

12

126

51

(342)

(222)

(188)

(288)

(177)

(158)

(7)

(8)

(7)

Deferred tax (expense) benefit

(48)

(37)

(23)

Total tax (expense) benefit of
continuing operations (foreign)

44

(22)

(15)

(1)

(2)

(2)

(24)

(2)

-

Foreign:
Current tax (expense) benefit

Income tax expense of
continuing operations
1)

Income before tax excludes the result of investments in
associates.
(4)

(1)

Other financial expenses

(180)

(15)

(58)

Financial expense

(507)

(263)

(264)

Financial income and expenses

(442)

(137)

(213)

Income taxes
The income tax expense of continuing operations
amounted to EUR 193 million (2017: EUR 349 million,
2016: EUR 203 million).

Annual Report 2018

Foreign

65

Net financial income and expense showed a EUR 137
million expense in 2017, which was EUR 305 million
lower than in 2016. Net interest expense in 2017 was
EUR 117 million lower than in 2016, mainly due to lower
interest expenses on net debt following the bond
redemptions in October 2016 and January 2017. Higher
dividend income was mainly related to the retained
interest in the combined businesses of Lumileds and
Automotive. Impairment charges in 2016 amounted to
EUR 24 million mainly due to Corindus Vascular
Robotics. Lower provision-related accretion and interest
in 2016 is primarily due to the release of accrued
interest as a result of the settlement of the Masimo
litigation. Other financial expenses included financial
charges related to the early redemption of USD bonds
of EUR 153 million.

138

Netherlands

Current tax (expense) benefit

Net financial income and expense showed a EUR 213
million expense in 2018, which was EUR 76 million
higher than in 2017. Other financial expenses included
financial charges related to the early redemption of USD
bonds of EUR 46 million. Net interest expense in 2018
was EUR 25 million lower than in 2017, mainly due to
lower interest expenses on pensions and lower interest
expenses on net debt.

8

Philips Group
Income tax expense in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018

Income tax expense of continuing operations excludes
the tax benefit of the discontinued operations of EUR 14
million (2017: EUR 182 million tax expense, 2016: EUR
181 million tax expense), further detailed in section
Discontinued operations and assets classified as held
for sale, starting on page 131.
The components of income tax expense of continuing
operations are as follows:
Philips Group
Current income tax expense in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
Current year tax (expense)
benefit
Prior year tax (expense) benefit
Current tax (expense)

2016

2017

2018

(165)

(275)

(318)

20

3

4

(145)

(272)

(314)

2016

2017

2018
(2)

Philips Group
Deferred income tax expense In millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
Changes to recognition of tax
loss and credit carry forwards

(37)

23

Changes to recognition of
temporary differences

31

35

4

Prior year tax

(1)

6

15

Tax rate changes

5

(72)

(26)

Origination and reversal of
temporary differences, tax
losses and tax credits

(56)

(69)

130

Deferred tax (expense) benefit

(58)

(77)

121

Philips’ operations are subject to income taxes in
various foreign jurisdictions. The statutory income tax
rate varies per country, which results in a difference
between the weighted average statutory income tax

Statements 11.1.9

rate and the Netherlands’ statutory income tax rate of
25.0% (2017: 25.0%; 2016: 25.0%).
A reconciliation of the weighted average statutory
income tax rate to the effective income tax rate of
continuing operations is as follows:
Philips Group
Effective income tax rate in %
2016 - 2018
2016

2017

2018

Weighted average statutory
income tax rate in %

23.3

24.5

24.9

Recognition of previously
unrecognized tax loss and credit
carryforwards

(1.9)

(2.3)

(0.4)

Unrecognized tax loss and
credit carryforwards

5.5

0.6

0.5

Changes to recognition of
temporary differences

(3.1)

(2.6)

(0.3)

Non-taxable income and tax
incentives

(8.2)

(9.8)

(11.9)

9.3

6.4

3.7
4.5

Non-deductible expenses
Withholding and other taxes

1.2

4.0

Tax rate changes

(0.5)

5.2

1.8

Prior year tax

(1.8)

(0.6)

(1.3)

Tax expenses (benefit) due to
other tax liabilities

(2.6)

(1.7)

(8.6)

Others, net

(1.3)

1.5

(0.1)

Effective income tax rate

19.9

25.3

12.8

The effective income tax rate is lower than the weighted
average statutory income tax rate in 2018, mainly due to
one-time non-cash benefits from tax audit resolutions
and business integration. These tax audit resolutions in
multiple jurisdictions, partly offset by provisions relating
to tax risks, are reflected in the ‘Tax expense (benefit)
due to other tax liabilities’ line. The impact of business
integration is included in the ‘Non-taxable income and
tax incentives’ line.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets are recognized for temporary
differences, unused tax losses, and unused tax credits
to the extent that realization of the related tax benefits
is probable. The ultimate realization of deferred tax
assets is dependent upon the generation of future
taxable income in the countries where the deferred tax
assets originated and during the periods when the
deferred tax assets become deductible. Management
considers the scheduled reversal of deferred tax
liabilities, projected future taxable income, and tax
planning strategies in making this assessment.
Net deferred tax assets relate to the following
underlying assets and liabilities and tax loss
carryforwards (including tax credit carryforwards) and
their movements during the years 2018 and 2017
respectively are presented in the tables below.
The net deferred tax assets of EUR 1,676 million (2017:
EUR 1,565 million) consist of deferred tax assets of EUR
1,828 million (2017: EUR 1,598 million) and deferred tax
liabilities of EUR 152 million (2017: EUR 33 million). Of
the total deferred tax assets of EUR 1,828 million at
December 31, 2018 (2017: EUR 1,598 million), EUR 203
million (2017: EUR 161 million) is recognized in respect of
entities in various countries where there have been tax
losses in the current or preceding period. Management’s
projections support the assumption that it is probable
that the results of future operations will generate
sufficient taxable income to utilize these deferred tax
assets.
At December 31, 2018 the temporary differences
associated with investments, including potential income
tax consequences on dividends, for which no deferred
tax liabilities are recognized, aggregate to EUR 186
million (2017: EUR 290 million).

Philips Group
Deferred tax assets and liabilities in millions of EUR
2018

Intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment
Inventories
Other assets

Balance as of
January 1, 2018

recognized in
income
statement

other 1)

Balance as of
December 31,
2018

(383)

299

Assets

Liabilities

(78)

(162)

90

23

(252)

(13)

2

12

32

(20)

231

18

8

257

265

(8)

74

(38)

15

50

77

(27)

Pensions and other employee benefits

265

(17)

19

267

269

(2)

Other liabilities

536

(137)

30

428

537

(109)

Deferred tax assets on tax loss
carryforwards

819

11

(6)

824

Set-off deferred tax positions
Net deferred tax assets

1,565

121

(10)

1,676

824

-

(265)

265

1,828

(152)

1)

Other includes the movements of assets and liabilities recognized in OCI, which includes foreign currency translation differences, acquisitions
and divestments.

Annual Report 2018

139

Statements 11.1.9

Philips Group
Deferred tax assets and liabilities in millions of EUR
2017
recognized in
Balance as of
income
January 1, 2017
statement
Intangible assets
Property, plant and
equipment

(676)

549

Transfer to
assets held for
sale

other 1)

Balance as of
December 31,
2017

Assets

Liabilities

(28)

(228)

(383)

423

(806)
(16)

10

15

(2)

23

39

Inventories

347

(34)

(52)

(29)

231

235

(4)

Other assets

138

7

(82)

12

74

96

(22)

Pensions and other
employee benefits

597

(126)

(149)

(57)

265

265

-

Other liabilities

989

(288)

(8)

(158)

536

596

(61)

1,288

(201)

(125)

(144)

819

819

-

(876)

876

2,692

(77)

(444)

(606)

1,565

1,598

(33)

Deferred tax assets on
tax loss carryforwards
Set-off deferred tax
positions
Net deferred tax assets

1)
Other includes the movements of assets and liabilities recognized in OCI, which includes foreign currency translation differences and
acquisitions, as well as the effects of US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.

140

Annual Report 2018

Statements 11.1.9

The company has available tax loss and credit carryforwards, which expire as follows:
Philips Group
Expiry years of net operating loss and credit carryforwards in millions of EUR
Total Balance as of
December 31, 2017

Unrecognized balance
as of December 31, 2017

Total Balance as of
December 31, 2018

Unrecognized balance
as of December 31, 2018

Within 1 year

3

1 to 2 years

5

3

2

1

2

3

2 to 3 years

15

1

6

16

4
1,906

3 to 4 years

14

2

1,911

4 to 5 years

1,843

1,809

18

6

Later

2,134

410

2,312

36

Unlimited
Total

1,812

1,118

1,728

1,123

5,827

3,351

5,990

3,077

At December 31, 2018, the amount of deductible
temporary differences for which no deferred tax asset
has been recognized in the balance sheet was EUR 37
million (2017: EUR 42 million).
Tax risks
Philips is exposed to tax risks. With regard to these tax
risks a liability is recognized if, as a result of a past
event, Philips has an obligation that can be estimated
reliably and it is probable that an outflow of economic
benefits will be required to settle the obligation. These
uncertain positions are presented as Other tax liabilities
in Other liabilities, starting on page 160 and include,
among others, the following:
US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
Philips assessed the impact of the material aspects of
the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on its current and
deferred tax assets and liabilities. These reported
amounts may be subject to estimation uncertainty and
measurement adjustments may need to be made in
subsequent reporting periods as Philips will get more
accurate information on the impact of the Act and the
modalities of its application. The main uncertainties
relate to the availability of net interest expense
carryforwards and the amount of tax earnings and
profits subject to tax under the mandatory deemed
repatriation provisions.
Transfer pricing risks
Philips has issued transfer pricing directives, which are
in accordance with international guidelines such as
those of the Organization of Economic Co-operation
and Development. In order to reduce the transfer pricing
uncertainties, monitoring procedures are carried out by
Group Tax to safeguard the correct implementation of

the transfer pricing directives. However, tax disputes can
arise due to inconsistent transfer pricing regimes and
different views on "at arm's length" pricing.
Tax risks on general and specific service agreements
and licensing agreements
Due to the centralization of certain activities (such as
research and development, IT and group functions),
costs are also centralized. As a consequence, these
costs and/or revenues must be allocated to the
beneficiaries, i.e. the various Philips entities. For that
purpose, service contracts such as intra-group service
agreements and licensing agreements are signed with a
large number of group entities. Tax authorities review
these intra-group service and licensing agreements, and
may reject the implemented intra-group charges.
Furthermore, buy in/out situations in the case of
(de)mergers could affect the cost allocation resulting
from the intragroup service agreements between
countries. The same applies to the specific service
agreements.
Tax risks due to disentanglements and acquisitions
When a subsidiary of Philips is disentangled, or a new
company is acquired, tax risks may arise. Philips creates
merger and acquisition (M&A) teams for these
disentanglements or acquisitions. In addition to
representatives from the involved business, these teams
consist of specialists from various group functions and
are formed, among other things, to identify tax risks and
to reduce potential tax claims.
Tax risks due to permanent establishments
A permanent establishment may arise when a Philips
entity has activities in another country, tax claims could
arise in both countries on the same income.

Annual Report 2018

141

Statements 11.1.9

9

Earnings per share
Philips Group
Earnings per share in millions of EUR unless otherwise stated 1)
2016 - 2018
2016 2)
Income from continuing operations

2017 2)

2018

831

1,028

1,310

Income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest, from continuing
operations

4

11

7

Income from continuing operations
attributable to shareholders

826

1,017

1,303

Income from Discontinued operations

660

843

(213)

Income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest, from Discontinued
operations

38

203

Income from Discontinued operations
attributable to shareholders

622

639

(213)

1,448

1,657

1,090

918,015,863

928,797,650

922,987,190

Net income attributable to shareholders
Weighted average number of common
shares outstanding (after deduction of
treasury shares) during the year
Plus incremental shares from assumed
conversions of:
Options
Performance shares
Restricted share rights

2,456,616

3,161,267

2,007,703

6,985,509

10,757,785

8,632,652

1,331,163

2,008,162

2,223,382

Forward contracts
Dilutive potential common shares

407,193
10,773,289

16,334,406

12,863,738

928,789,152

945,132,056

935,850,928

Income from continuing operations
attributable to shareholders

0.90

1.10

1.41

Income from Discontinued operations
attributable to shareholders

0.68

0.69

(0.23)

1.58

1.78

1.18

Income from continuing operations
attributable to shareholders

0.89

1.08

1.39

Income from Discontinued operations
attributable to shareholders

0.67

0.68

(0.23)

Net income attributable to shareholders

1.56

1.75

1.16

0.80

0.80

0.80

Diluted weighted average number of shares
(after deduction of treasury shares) during
the year
Basic earnings per common share in EUR

Net income attributable to shareholders
Diluted earnings per common share in
EUR 3) 4)

Dividend distributed per common share in
euros
1)

Shareholders in this table refers to shareholders of Koninklijke Philips N.V.

2)
During 2018, an error was identified in certain non-controlling interests and EPS calculations for 2016 and 2017 respectively. Reference is made
to the Significant accounting policies, starting on page 112.
3)
In 2016, 9 million securities that could potentially dilute basic EPS were not included in the computation of dilutive EPS because the effect
would have been antidilutive for the periods presented.
4)

142

The dilutive potential common shares are not taken into account in the periods for which there is a loss, as the effect would be antidilutive

Annual Report 2018

Statements 11.1.9

10

Property, plant and equipment
Philips Group
Property, plant and equipment in millions of EUR
2018
land and
buildings

machinery and installations

other equipment

prepayments and
construction in
progress
140

total

Balance as of January 1, 2018
Cost

1,111

1,708

1,449

(527)

(1,217)

(1,074)

584

491

376

Capital expenditures

20

126

Assets available for use

68

99

-

(5)

7

Depreciation

(56)

(191)

(162)

Impairments

(5)

(13)

(12)

-

11

(2)

4

-

13

37

13

7

63

121

203

Accumulated depreciation
Book value

4,408
(2,818)

140

1,591

64

337

546

108

(275)

-

-

2

Change in book value:

Acquisitions

Translations differences and other
Total changes

(409)
(30)

Balance as of December 31, 2018
Cost

1,193

1,669

1,523

Accumulated depreciation

(572)

(1,164)

(1,140)

621

504

383

203

1,712

other equipment

prepayments and
construction in
progress

total

179

Book value

4,588
(2,876)

Philips Group
Property, plant and equipment in millions of EUR
2017
land and
buildings

machinery and
installations

Balance as of January 1, 2017
Cost

1,766

3,222

1,897

Accumulated depreciation

(912)

(2,546)

(1,451)

854

676

446

Book value

7,064
(4,909)

179

2,155
551

Change in book value:
Capital expenditures

17

128

86

320

63

117

129

(309)

-

71

3

Depreciation

(60)

(205)

(169)

Impairments

(1)

(32)

(11)

-

(44)

Reclassifications

39

(47)

9

3

4

Transfer (to) from assets classified
as held for sale

(284)

(186)

(82)

(44)

(596)

Translations differences and other

(44)

(32)

(35)

(9)

(120)

(270)

(185)

(70)

(39)

(564)

140

Assets available for use
Disposals and sales

Total changes

74
(434)

Balance as of December 31, 2017
Cost
Accumulated depreciation
Book value

1,111

1,708

1,449

(527)

(1,217)

(1,074)

584

491

376

Land with a book value of EUR 56 million at December
31, 2018 (2017: EUR 50 million) is not depreciated.
Property, plant and equipment includes financial lease
assets with a book value of EUR 334 million at
December 31, 2018 (2017: EUR 281 million).

4,408
(2,818)

140

1,591

Philips Group
Useful lives of property, plant and equipment in years
Buildings

from 5 to 50 years

Machinery and installations

from 3 to 20 years

Other equipment

from 1 to 10 years

The expected useful lives of property, plant and
equipment are as follows:

Annual Report 2018

143

Statements 11.1.9

11

Goodwill
The changes in 2017 and 2018 were as follows:
Philips Group
Goodwill in millions EUR
2017 - 2018
2017

2018

11,151

9,074

Impairments

(2,253)

(1,343)

Book value

8,898

7,731

Goodwill allocated to the cash-generating units ImageGuided Therapy, Monitoring & Analytics and Sleep &
Respiratory Care is considered to be significant in
comparison to the total book value of goodwill for the
Group at December 31, 2018. The amounts associated
as of December 31, 2018 are presented below:

Balance as of January 1:
Cost

Changes in book value:
Acquisitions
Divestments and transfers to assets
classified as held for sale
Translation differences and other

1,548

465

Philips Group
Goodwill allocated to the cash-generating units in millions of EUR
2017 - 2018
2017

2018

Image-Guided Therapy

2,242

2,357

Patient Care & Monitoring Solutions

1,349

Monitoring & Analytics
Sleep & Respiratory Care

(1,878)

(3)

(836)

310

1,354
1,819

1,925

Other (units carrying a nonsignificant goodwill balance)

2,321

2,867

Book value

7,731

8,503

Balance as of December 31:
Cost
Impairments
Book value

9,074

9,908

(1,343)

(1,405)

7,731

8,503

Goodwill increased by EUR 465 million in 2018, mainly
from the acquisition of EPD Solutions for an amount of
EUR 262 million and other acquisitions for an amount of
EUR 203 million. The further increase of EUR 310 million
is mainly due to translation differences which impacted
the goodwill denominated in USD.
In 2017, the increase of goodwill for the amount of EUR
1,548 million relates to Spectranetics for an amount of
EUR 1,255 million and other acquisitions for an amount
of EUR 293 million. Divestments of EUR 1,878 million
primarily relate to the divestment of Signify. Information
on the divestment of Signify can be found in
Discontinued operations and assets classified as held
for sale, starting on page 131. The decrease of EUR 836
million is mainly due to translation differences which
impacted the goodwill denominated in USD.
In 2018, the activities of Patient Care & Monitoring
Solutions in the segment Connected Care & Health
Informatics were split over two new cash-generating
units: Monitoring & Analytics and Therapeutic Care. As a
result of the change, the goodwill associated with
Patient Care & Monitoring Solutions was allocated over
these two new units based on the estimated fair value
of Monitoring & Analytics and Therapeutic Care relative
to the Q4 2017 Patient Care & Monitoring Solutions
value in use calculation. The Therapeutic Care goodwill
is considered not to be significant in comparison to the
total book value of goodwill.
Goodwill impairment testing
For impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to (groups
of) cash-generating units (typically one level below
segment level), which represent the lowest level at
which the goodwill is monitored internally for
management purposes.

144

Annual Report 2018

The basis of the recoverable amount used in the annual
impairment tests for the units disclosed in this note is
the value in use. In the annual impairment test
performed in the fourth quarter of 2018, the estimated
recoverable amounts of the cash-generating units
tested approximated or exceeded the carrying value of
the units, therefore no impairment loss was recognized.
Key assumptions - general
Key assumptions used in the impairment tests for the
units were sales growth rates, EBITA*) and the rates
used for discounting the projected cash flows. These
cash flow projections were determined using the Royal
Philips managements’ internal forecasts that cover an
initial period from 2019 to 2021. Projections were
extrapolated with stable or declining growth rates for a
period of 4 years, after which a terminal value was
calculated. For terminal value calculation, growth rates
were capped at a historical long-term average growth
rate. The mentioned 4 years is linked to managements'
new internal forecasts of 2022-2025 that will be
concluded in 2019, and was updated from 5 years as
applied in 2017 to be aligned with the current Philips
forecasting process.
The sales growth rates and EBITA*) used to estimate
cash flows are based on past performance, external
market growth assumptions and industry long-term
growth averages. EBITA*) in all units mentioned in this
note is expected to increase over the projection period
as a result of volume growth and cost efficiencies.
Key assumptions and sensitivity analysis relating to
cash-generating units to which a significant amount
of goodwill is allocated
Cash flow projections of Image-Guided Therapy,
Monitoring & Analytics and Sleep & Respiratory Care are
based on the key assumptions included in the table
below, which were used in the annual impairment test
performed in the fourth quarter:

Statements 11.1.9

Philips Group
Key assumptions in %
2018
compound sales growth rate 1)
initial
forecast
period

extrapolation
period 2)

used to
calculate
terminal
value 3)

ImageGuided
Therapy

8.1

5.2

2.3

9.3

Monitoring
& Analytics

6.5

4.0

2.3

9.9

Sleep &
Respiratory
Care

8.4

4.8

2.3

10.6

pre-tax
discount
rates

1)

Compound sales growth rate is the annualized steady nominal
growth rate over the forecast period
2)
Also referred to later in the text as compound long-term sales
growth rate
3)
The historical long-term growth rate is only applied to the first
year after the 4 year extrapolation period, after which no further
growth is assumed for the terminal value calculation

The assumptions used for the 2017 cash flow
projections were as follows:
Philips Group
Key assumptions in %
2017
compound sales growth rate 1)
initial
forecast
period

extrapolation
period 2)

used to
calculate
terminal
value 3)

ImageGuided
Therapy

5.3

4

2.3

10.9

Patient
Care &
Monitoring
Solutions

3.8

4.8

2.3

12.3

Sleep &
Respiratory
Care

7.2

5.6

2.3

12.1

pre-tax
discount
rates

1)

Compound sales growth rate is the annualized steady nominal
growth rate over the forecast period
2)
Also referred to later in the text as compound long-term sales
growth rate
3)
The historical long-term growth rate is only applied to the first
year after the 5 year extrapolation period, after which no further
growth is assumed for the terminal value calculation

The results of the annual impairment test of ImageGuided Therapy, Monitoring & Analytics and Sleep &
Respiratory Care indicate that a reasonably possible
change in key assumptions would not cause the value
in use to fall to the level of the carrying value.
Additional information relating to cash-generating

units to which a non-significant amount relative to
the total goodwill is allocated
In addition to the significant goodwill recorded at the
units mentioned above, Aging & Caregiving (formerly
Home Monitoring) and Population Insights & Care
(formerly Population Health Management) are sensitive
to fluctuations in the assumptions as set out above.
Based on the most recent impairment test of the cashgenerating unit Aging & Caregiving, it was noted that an
increase of 300 points in the pre-tax discount rate, a
730 basis points decline in the compound long-term
sales growth rate or a 39% decrease in terminal value
would, individually, cause its recoverable amount to fall
to the level of its carrying value. The goodwill allocated
to Aging & Caregiving at December 31, 2018 amounts to
EUR 43 million.
Based on the annual impairment test of the cashgenerating unit Population Insights & Care, it was noted
that an increase of 10 points in the pre-tax discount
rate, a 30 basis points decline in the compound longterm sales growth rate or a 3% decrease in terminal
value would, individually, cause its recoverable amount
to fall to the level of its carrying value. The goodwill
allocated to Population Insights & Care at December 31,
2018 amounts to EUR 207 million.
Impairment tests are performed based on forward
looking assumptions, using the most recent available
information. By their nature, these assumptions involve
risk and uncertainty because they relate to future
events and circumstances and there are many factors
that could cause actual results and developments to
differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations
set forth in these assumptions. For the two cashgenerating units Aging & Caregiving and Population
Insights & Care there is a higher risk that those
deviations might cause the recoverable amount to fall
below the level of its carrying value.
For the other cash-generating units to which a nonsignificant amount relative to the total goodwill is
allocated any reasonable change in assumptions would
not cause the value in use to fall to the level of the
carrying value.

*)

Non-IFRS financial measure. For the definition and
reconciliation of the most directly comparable IFRS
measure, refer to Information by segment and country,
starting on page 129.

Annual Report 2018

145

Statements 11.1.9

12

Intangible assets excluding goodwill
The changes were as follows:
Philips Group
Intangible assets excluding goodwill in millions of EUR
2018

brand
names

customer
relationships

technology

product
development

product
development
construction
in progress

software

other

total

Balance as of January 1, 2018
Cost
Amortization/ impairments
Book value

670

2,342

1,985

1,848

487

605

105

8,042

(392)

(1,338)

(1,161)

(1,262)

(51)

(431)

(84)

(4,720)

278

1,004

824

586

436

174

21

3,322

7

14

92

92

1

205

Changes in book value:
Additions:
Purchases
Internally generated assets

203

Assets available for use
Acquisitions

256
11

17

330

Amortization

(34)

(114)

(116)

(221)

Impairments

(52)

(16)

(9)

(16)

Translation differences and
other
Total changes

203

(256)

(1)

-

56

415

(59)

(4)

(549)

(5)

(2)

(101)

3

36

27

15

8

2

3

94

(72)

(70)

246

34

45

30

53

267

Balance as of December 31,
2018
Cost
Amortization/ impairments
Book Value

689

2,421

2,400

2,103

532

684

168

8,997

(484)

(1,488)

(1,330)

(1,483)

(51)

(480)

(93)

(5,408)

205

934

1,070

621

481

204

75

3,589

product
development
construction
in progress

software

other

total

Philips Group
Intangible assets excluding goodwill in millions of EUR
2017

brand
names

customer
relationships

technology

product
development

Balance as of January 1, 2017
Cost

1,088

3,429

2,074

1,899

578

580

134

9,782

Amortization/ impairments

(633)

(2,188)

(1,491)

(1,362)

(36)

(421)

(99)

(6,230)

455

1,241

583

537

542

159

34

3,552

-

23

149

86

3

Book value
Changes in book value:
Additions:
Purchases
Internally generated assets

189

Assets available for use
Acquisitions
Amortization
Divestments and transfers to
assets classified as held for
sale
Translation differences
Total changes

363

(363)
2

16

926

(100)

(213)

-

(52)

(3)

(550)

(12)

(43)

(27)

(1)

7

431

470

(40)

(142)

Impairments

261
189

(83)

(120)

(438)

(103)

(23)

(11)

(19)

(6)

(721)

(24)

(89)

(37)

(35)

(43)

(1)

(23)

(252)

(178)

(238)

241

49

(106)

15

(13)

(230)

Balance as of December 31,
2017
Cost
Accumulated amortization
Book Value

670

2,342

1,985

1,848

487

605

105

8,042

(392)

(1,338)

(1,161)

(1,262)

(51)

(431)

(84)

(4,720)

278

1,004

824

586

436

174

21

3,322

The acquisitions through business combinations in 2018 mainly consist of the acquired intangible assets of EPD Solutions
Ltd. For more information, please refer to Acquisitions and divestments, starting on page 133.
The amortization of intangible assets is specified in Income from operations, starting on page 135.

146

Annual Report 2018

Statements 11.1.9

The expected useful lives of the intangible assets
excluding goodwill are as follows:

At December 31, 2018 the carrying amount of customer
relationships of Sleep & Respiratory Care was EUR 278
million with a remaining amortization period of 5 years
(2017: EUR 315 million; 6 years). For the intangibles
relating to the acquisition of Spectranetics refer to
Acquisitions and divestments, starting on page 133.

Philips Group
Expected useful lives of intangible assets excluding goodwill in
years
Brand names

2-20

Customer relationships

2-25

Technology

3-20

Other

1-10

Software

1-10

Product development

13

Other current financial assets
In 2018 current financial assets increased by EUR 434
million from EUR 2 million in 2017 to EUR 436 million in
2018, reflecting mainly the remaining interest in Signify
(formerly Philips Lighting) of 16.5% as of December 31,
2018 (please refer to Interests in entities, starting on
page 134).

3-7

The weighted average expected remaining life of brand
names, customer relationships, technology and other
intangible assets is 9.3 years as of December 31, 2018
(2017: 9.6 years).

Philips Group
Other non-current financial assets in millions of EUR
2018
Non-current financial
assets at FVTP&L
Balance as of January 1, 2018 1)

Other financial assets

Other non-current financial assets
The changes during 2018 were as follows:

Non-current financial
assets at FVTOCI

Non-current financial assets at
Amortized cost

Total

369

114

587

104

Changes:
Acquisitions/additions

30

1

14

45

(20)

(18)

(78)

(116)

Value adjustment through OCI

-

(164)

Value adjustment through P&L

(2)

Sales/redemptions/reductions

Translation differences and other

2

Reclassifications
Balance as of December 31, 2018
1)

(164)

12

-

(1)

(4)

10

2

(2)

-

-

116

198

46

360

Refer to IFRS 9 disclosure in Significant accounting policies note for the impact of IFRS 9 on 2018 opening balance.

Philips Group
Other non-current financial assets in millions of EUR
2017

Balance as of January 1, 2017

available-for-sale
financial assets

loans and
receivables

held-to-maturity
investments

financial assets at
fair value through
profit or loss

total

172

134

2

27

335

Changes:
Reclassifications

(1)

2

-

1

2

Acquisitions/additions

368

5

-

-

374

Sales/redemptions

(23)

(8)

-

(3)

(34)

(1)

-

(46)

-

8

(39)

Translation differences and other

(24)

(20)

(1)

(6)

(50)

Balance as of December 31, 2017

446

114

1

27

587

Impairment
Value adjustments

The company’s investments in non-current financial
assets mainly consist of investments in common shares
of companies in various industries. In 2018, the main
movements in non-current financial assets at FVTOCI
can be explained by value adjustments related to the
retained investment in the combined Lumileds and
Automotive businesses (please refer to Fair value of
financial assets and liabilities, starting on page 170)
The retained investment in the combined businesses of
Lumileds and Automotive of EUR 112 million (December
31, 2017: EUR 243 million) is classified as a financial
asset recognized at fair value through OCI.

14

(1)

Other assets
Other non-current assets
Other non-current assets in 2018 mainly related to
prepaid expenses of EUR 47 million (2017: EUR 74
million).
Other current assets
Other current assets include EUR 276 million (2017: EUR
186 million) accrued income and EUR 193 million (2017:
EUR 206 million) for prepaid expense mainly related to
Diagnosis & Treatment businesses and Connected Care
& Health Informatics businesses.

Annual Report 2018

147

Statements 11.1.9

15

Philips Group
Allowance for accounts receivable in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018

Inventories
Inventories are summarized as follows:
Philips Group
Inventories in millions of EUR
2017 - 2018

Balance as of January 1
Additions charged to expense
2017

16

2018

Deductions from allowance 1)

Raw materials and supplies

715

876

Transfer to assets held for sale

Work in process

358

366

Other movements

Finished goods

1,280

1,432

Inventories

2,353

2,674

Balance as of December 31
1)

2017

2018

301

318

215

76

41

28

(64)

(36)

(28)

(92)
5

(16)

(21)

318

215

194

Write-offs for which an allowance was previously provided.

The write-down of inventories to net realizable value
was EUR 159 million in 2018 (2017: EUR 150 million). The
write-down is included in cost of sales.

The allowance for doubtful accounts receivable has
been primarily established for receivables that are past
due.

Receivables

Included in the above balances as per December 31,
2018 are allowances for individually impaired
receivables of EUR 181 million (2017: EUR 197 million;
2016: EUR 289 million). .

Non-current receivables
Non-current receivables are associated mainly with
customer financing in Diagnosis & Treatment businesses
amounting to EUR 44 million (2017: EUR 47 million), for
Signify indemnification amounting to EUR 59 million
and insurance receivables in Other in the US amounting
to EUR 41 million (2017: EUR 47 million).
Current receivables
Current receivables at December 31, 2018 included
accounts receivable net of EUR 3,805 million, accounts
receivable other of EUR 203 million and accounts
receivable from investments in associates of EUR 27
million.
The accounts receivable, net, per segment are as
follows:
Philips Group
Accounts receivables-net in millions of EUR
2017 - 2018
Diagnosis & Treatment

2017

2018

1,489

1,601

Connected Care & Health Informatics

706

723

Personal Health

1,341

1,411

Other
Accounts receivable-net

72

70

3,609

3,805

The aging analysis of accounts receivable, net, is set out
below:
Philips Group
Aging analysis in millions of EUR
2017 - 2018
current

2017

2018

3,046

3,222

overdue 1-30 days

256

228

overdue 31-180 days

242

270

overdue > 180 days
Accounts receivable-net

63

85

3,609

3,805

The above net accounts receivable represent current
and overdue but not fully impaired receivables.
The changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts
receivable are as follows:

148

2016

Annual Report 2018

Contract assets
Current contract assets were EUR 232 million per
December 31, 2018 (2017: EUR 171 million).
The contract assets increased with EUR 61 million. The
year-on-year change is mainly driven by timing
differences between billing terms and services provided.
17

Equity
Common shares
As of December 31, 2018, authorized common shares
consist of 2 billion shares (December 31, 2017: 2 billion;
December 31, 2016: 2 billion) and the issued and fully
paid share capital consists of 926,195,539 common
shares, each share having a par value of EUR 0.20
(December 31, 2017: 940,909,027; December 31, 2016:
929,644,864).
Preference shares
As a means to protect the Company and its
stakeholders against an unsolicited attempt to obtain
(de facto) control of the Company, the General Meeting
of Shareholders in 1989 adopted amendments to the
Company’s articles of association that allow the Board
of Management and the Supervisory Board to issue
(rights to acquire) preference shares to a third party. The
‘Stichting Preferente Aandelen Philips’ has been
granted the right to acquire preference shares in the
Company. Such right has not been exercised as of
December 31, 2018 and no preference shares have been
issued. Authorized preference shares consist of 2 billion
shares as of December 31, 2018 (December 31, 2017: 2
billion; December 31, 2016: 2 billion).
Options, restricted and performance shares
The Company has granted stock options on its common
shares and rights to receive common shares in the
future (see Share-based compensation, starting on
page 163).

Statements 11.1.9

Treasury shares
In connection with the Company’s share repurchase programs (see next paragraph: Share repurchase methods for sharebased compensation plans and capital reduction purposes), shares which have been repurchased and are held in
Treasury for the purpose of (i) delivery upon exercise of options, restricted and performance share programs, and (ii)
capital reduction, are accounted for as a reduction of shareholders’ equity. Treasury shares are recorded at cost,
representing the market price on the acquisition date. When issued, shares are removed from treasury shares on a first-in,
first-out (FIFO) basis.
When treasury shares are reissued under the Company’s option plans, the difference between the cost and the cash
received is recorded in retained earnings. When treasury shares are reissued under the Company’s share plans, the
difference between the market price of the shares issued and the cost is recorded in retained earnings, the market price is
recorded in capital in excess of par value.
The following table shows the movements in the outstanding number of shares over the last three years:
Philips Group
Outstanding number of shares in number of shares
2016 - 2018
Balance as of January 1

2016

2017

2018

917,103,586

922,436,563

926,191,723

Dividend distributed

17,344,462

11,264,163

9,533,223

Purchase of treasury shares

(25,193,411)

(19,841,595)

(31,993,879)

Re-issuance of treasury shares
Balance as of December 31

13,181,926

12,332,592

10,453,020

922,436,563

926,191,723

914,184,087

The following transactions took place resulting from employee option and share plans:
Philips Group
Employee option and share plan transactions
2016 - 2018
Shares acquired
Average market price
Amount paid

Cost of delivered shares

2018
8,226,101

EUR 24.73

EUR 31.81

EUR 32.59

EUR 484 million

EUR 268 million
10,453,020

13,181,926

12,332,592

EUR 25.86

EUR 27.07

EUR 32.66

EUR 341 million

EUR 334 million

EUR 341 million

Total shares in treasury at year-end
Total cost

2017
15,222,662

EUR 213 million

Shares delivered
Average price (FIFO)

2016
8,601,426

7,208,301

10,098,371

7,871,452

EUR 181 million

EUR 331 million

EUR 258 million

In order to reduce share capital, the following transactions took place:
Philips Group
Share capital transactions
2016 - 2018
Shares acquired
Average market price
Amount paid
Cancellation of treasury shares (shares)
Cancellation of treasury shares (EUR)

2016

2017

2018

16,591,985

4,618,933

23,767,778

EUR 23.84

EUR 32.47

EUR 32.58

EUR 396 million

EUR 150 million

EUR 774 million

18,829,985

24,246,711

EUR 450 million

EUR 783 million

Total shares in treasury at year-end
Total cost

4,618,933

4,140,000

EUR 150 million

EUR 141 million

Share purchase transactions related to employee option
and share plans, as well as transactions related to the
reduction of share capital, involved a cash outflow of
EUR 1,042 million. A cash inflow of EUR 94 million from
treasury shares mainly includes settlements of sharebased compensation plans.

repurchases in the open market via an intermediary (ii)
repurchase of shares via forward contracts for future
delivery of shares (iii) the unwinding of call options on
own shares. In 2018, Royal Philips also used methods (i)
and (ii) to repurchase shares for capital reduction
purposes.

Share repurchase methods for share-based
compensation plans and capital reduction purposes
During 2018, Royal Philips repurchased shares for
share-based compensation plans and capital reduction
purposes via three different methods: (i) share buy-back

Forward share repurchase contracts
In order to hedge commitments under share-based
compensation plans, Philips entered into three forward
contracts in the last quarter of 2018, involving 10 million
shares. This resulted in a reduction of Retained earnings
Annual Report 2018

149

Statements 11.1.9

of EUR 319 million against Short-term and Long-term
liabilities. Additionally, in the first quarter of 2018 the
remaining forward contracts under the forward share
buy-back contract of 2017 were exercised at a forward
price of EUR 27.03, resulting in a EUR 20 million
increase in Retained earnings against Treasury shares.
As of December 31, 2018, 10 million forward contracts
connected to share based compensation plans were
outstanding.

2017
In June 2017, Philips settled a dividend of EUR 0.80 per
common share, representing a total value of EUR 742
million including costs. Shareholders could elect for a
cash dividend or a share dividend. Approximately 48%
of the shareholders elected for a share dividend,
resulting in the issuance of 11,264,163 new common
shares. The settlement of the cash dividend involved an
amount of EUR 384 million (including costs)

In order to reduce its share capital, Royal Philips also
entered into six forward contracts in 2017. The forward
contacts involved 31,020,000 shares with a settlement
date varying between October 2018 and June 2019 and
a weighted average forward price of EUR 32.22. In 2018,
12,420,000 forward contracts were exercised resulting
in a EUR 423 million increase in Retained earnings
against Treasury shares. As of December 31, 2018,
18,600,000 forward contracts connected to share
capital reductions were outstanding. For further
information on the forward contracts please refer to
Debt.

2016
In June 2016, Philips settled a dividend of EUR 0.80 per
common share, representing a total value of EUR 732
million including costs. Shareholders could elect for a
cash dividend or a share dividend. Approximately 55%
of the shareholders elected for a share dividend,
resulting in the issuance of 17,344,462 new common
shares. The settlement of the cash dividend involved an
amount of EUR 330 million (including costs).

Share call options
During 2016 Philips bought EUR and USD-denominated
call options to hedge options granted under sharebased compensation plans before 2013.
In 2018, the Company unwound 1,263,486 EURdenominated and 1,204,126 USD-denominated call
options against the transfer of the same number of
Royal Philips shares (2,467,612 shares) and an
additional EUR 51 million cash payment to the buyer of
the call options.
The number of outstanding EUR denominated options
were 2,023,639 and USD-denominated options were
1,770,218, as of December 2018.
Dividend distribution
2018
In June 2018, Philips settled a dividend of EUR 0.80 per
common share, representing a total value of EUR 738
million including costs. Shareholders could elect for a
cash dividend or a share dividend. Approximately 46%
of the shareholders elected for a share dividend,
resulting in the issuance of 9,533,233 new common
shares. The settlement of the cash dividend involved an
amount of EUR 400 million (including costs).
A proposal will be submitted to the 2019 Annual
General Meeting of Shareholders to pay a dividend of
EUR 0.85 per common share, in cash or shares at the
option of the shareholders, against the net income of
the Company for 2018.

150

Annual Report 2018

Limitations in the distribution of shareholders’ equity
As at December 31, 2018, pursuant to Dutch law, certain
limitations exist relating to the distribution of
shareholders’ equity of EUR 1,558 million. Such
limitations relate to common shares of EUR 185 million,
as well as to legal reserves required by Dutch law
included under retained earnings of EUR 634 million
and unrealized currency translation differences of EUR
739 million. The unrealized losses related to fair value
through OCI financial assets of EUR 181 million and
unrealized losses related to cash flow hedges of EUR 10
million qualify as revaluation reserves and reduce the
distributable amount due to the fact that these reserves
are negative.
The legal reserve required by Dutch law of EUR 634
million included under retained earnings relates to any
legal or economic restrictions on the ability of affiliated
companies to transfer funds to the parent company in
the form of dividends.
As at December 31, 2017, these limitations in
distributable amounts were EUR 1,283 million and
related to common shares of EUR 188 million, as well as
to legal reserves required by Dutch law included under
retained earnings of EUR 703 million and unrealized
currency translation differences of EUR 392 million. The
unrealized losses related to fair value through OCI
financial assets of EUR 30 million qualify as a
revaluation reserve and reduce the distributable
amount due to the fact that this reserve is negative.
Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interests relate to minority stakes held
by third parties in consolidated group companies, for
further details reference is made to Interest in entities,
starting on page 134.

Statements 11.1.9

Capital management
Philips manages capital based upon the IFRS measures, net cash provided by operating activities and net cash used for
investing activities as well as the non-IFRS measure net debt. The definition of this non-IFRS measure and a
reconciliation to the IFRS measure is included below.
Net debt is defined as the sum of long and short-term debt minus cash and cash equivalents. Group equity is defined as
the sum of shareholders’ equity and non-controlling interests. This measure is used by Philips Treasury management and
investment analysts to evaluate financial strength and funding requirements. The Philips net debt position is managed
with the intention of retaining a strong investment grade credit rating. Furthermore, Philips’ aim when managing the net
debt position is dividend stability and a pay-out ratio of 40% to 50% of Adjusted income from continuing operations
attributable to shareholders (reconciliation to the most directly comparable IFRS measure, Net income, is provided at the
end of this note).
Philips Group
Composition of net debt and group equity in millions of EUR unless otherwise stated
2016 - 2018
Long-term debt
Short-term debt
Total debt

2016

2017

2018

4,021

4,044

3,427

1,585

672

1,394

5,606

4,715

4,821
1,688

Cash and cash equivalents

2,334

1,939

Net debt

3,272

2,776

3,132

12,546

11,999

12,088

Shareholders' equity
Non-controlling interests

907

24

29

Group equity

13,453

12,023

12,117

Net debt and group equity ratio

20:80

19:81

21:79

Adjusted income from continuing operations attributable to shareholders is not a recognized measure of financial
performance under IFRS. The reconciliation of Adjusted income from continuing operations attributable to shareholders
to the most directly comparable IFRS measure, Net income for 2018 is included in the table below.
Philips Group
Adjusted income from continuing operations attributable to shareholders 1) in millions of EUR
2018
2018
Net income

1,097

Less: Discontinued operations, net of income taxes

213

Income from continuing operations

1,310

Continuing operations non-controlling interests

(7)

Income from continuing operations attributable to shareholders

1,303

Adjustments for:
Amortization of acquired intangible assets

347

Restructuring costs and acquisition-related charges

258

Other items

41

Net finance expenses

57

Tax impact of adjusted items

(365)

Adjusted Income from continuing operations attributable to shareholders 1)
1)

18

1,643

Shareholders in this table refers to shareholders of Koninklijke Philips N.V.

Debt
Philips has a USD 2.5 billion Commercial Paper Programme and a EUR 1 billion committed standby revolving credit facility
that can be used for general group purposes, such as a backstop of its Commercial Paper Programme. As of December 31,
2018, Philips did not have any loans outstanding under either facility. In April 2018, Philips successfully exercised, with
existing terms and conditions, the first of two 1-year extension options of its EUR 1 billion committed standby revolving
credit facility, extending the maturity date to April 21, 2023. The facility does not have a material adverse change clause,
has no financial covenants and no credit-rating-related acceleration possibilities.
The provisions applicable to all USD-denominated corporate bonds issued by the company in March 2008 and March
2012 (due 2038 and 2042) contain a ‘Change of Control Triggering Event’. If the company would experience such an event
with respect to a series of corporate bonds the company might be required to offer to purchase the bonds that are still
outstanding at a purchase price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any.

Annual Report 2018

151

Statements 11.1.9

Furthermore, the conditions applicable to the EUR
denominated corporate bonds issued in 2017 and 2018
(due 2019, 2023, 2024 and 2028) contain a similar
provision (‘Change of Control Put Event’). Upon the
occurrence of such an event, the company might be
required to redeem or purchase any of such bonds at
their principal amount together with interest accrued.

2024 and EUR 500 million 1.375% due 2028). 6.875%
USD bonds due 2038 with an aggregate principal
amount of USD 56 million and USD 16 million were
redeemed in May and June 2018 respectively, resulting
in financial charges of EUR 21 million. In Q4 2018, a
nominal amount of EUR 423 million of forward
contracts related to the EUR 1.5 billion share buyback
program announced on June 28, 2017 matured. In
addition, in Q4 2018, Philips entered into three tranches
of forward purchases totaling 10 million shares for a
nominal amount of EUR 319 million maturing through
2021 to cover its long-term incentive and employee
stock purchase plans.

In March 2018, Philips refinanced a loan of EUR 178
million with a new long-term loan of EUR 200 million. In
April 2018, Philips completed the early redemption of all
the 3.750% USD bonds due 2022 with an aggregate
principal amount of USD 1 billion, resulting in financial
charges of EUR 24 million. For the purpose of the
redemption, a EUR 900 million loan was entered into,
which was repaid in May 2018 through the issuance of
fixed-rate EUR bonds with an aggregate principal
amount of EUR 1 billion (EUR 500 million 0.750% due

Long-term debt
The below tables present information about the longterm debt outstanding, its maturity and average interest
rates in 2017 and 2018.

Philips Group
Long-term debt in millions of EUR unless otherwise stated
2018
amount
outstanding in
Current
Non-current
2018
portion
portion
1,303

amount due
after 5 years

average
remaining
term (in years)

average rate of
interest

1,303

18.1

6.3%

991

5.0

0.7%

USD bonds

1,303

EUR bonds

1,988

500

Forward
contracts

807

618

188

188

Finance leases

330

94

236

190

46

3.6

2.9%

211

6

205

6.2

0.3%

1,488

497

0.8

Bank
borrowings

211

Other longterm debt

18

18

-

-

-

1.1

1.6%

4,657

1,230

3,427

882

2,545

7.9

2.3%

Philips Group
Long-term debt in millions of EUR unless otherwise stated
2017
amount
outstanding in
Current
Non-current
2017
portion
portion

Between 1 and
5 years

amount due
after 5 years

average
remaining
term (in years)

average rate of
interest

Long-term
debt

USD bonds

2,137

2,137

833

1,305

13.3

5.4%

EUR bonds

997

997

501

496

3.7

0.3%

Forward
contracts

970

394

576

576

Finance leases

281

87

195

170

24

4.8

3.4%

Bank
borrowings

190

52

138

138

2.1

1.3%

Other longterm debt

20

19

1

1

-

1.1

0.9%

4,595

552

4,044

2,218

1,825

7.6

2.8%

Long-term
debt

152

Between 1 and
5 years

Annual Report 2018

1.2

Statements 11.1.9

Bonds
The below table discloses the amount outstanding and
effective rate of bonds in 2017 and 2018.
Philips Group
Unsecured Bonds in millions of EUR unless otherwise stated
2017 - 2018
effective
rate
2017

Finance lease liabilities
The below table discloses the reconciliation between
the total of future minimum lease payments and their
present value.
For further information regarding the adoption of IFRS
16, please refer to Significant accounting policies,
starting on page 112.

2018

Unsecured EUR Bonds
Due 9/06/2023; 1/2%

0.634%

Due 9/06/2019; 3M Euribor
+20bps

500

500

500

500

Due 5/02/2024; 3/4%

0.861%

500

Due 5/02/2028; 1 3/8%

1.523%

500

Unsecured USD Bonds
Due 5/15/25; 7 3/4%

7.429%

53

55

Due 6/01/26; 7 1/5%

6.885%

114

119

Due 5/15/25; 7 1/8%

6.794%

70

74

Due 11/03/38; 6 7/8%

7.210%

668

636

Due 3/15/22; 3 3/4% 1)

3.906%

837

Due 3/15/42; 5%

5.273%

Adjustments 2)
Unsecured Bonds

418

438

(26)

(31)

3,134

3,291

1)
In April 2018, Philips completed the early redemption of all the
3.750% USD bonds due 2022 with an aggregate principal amount
of USD 1 billion.
2)
Adjustments related to both EUR and USD bonds and concern
bond discounts and premium, transaction costs and fair value
adjustments for interest rate derivatives.
Philips Group
Finance lease liabilities in millions of EUR
2017 - 2018

2017
future minimum lease
payments
93

interest

future minimum lease
payments

interest

present value of
minimum lease
payments

6

87

100

6

94

184

14

170

206

16

190

29

4

24

52

6

46

306

24

281

357

28

330

Less than one year
Between one and five
years
More than five years
Finance lease

2018
present value
of minimum
lease payments

Short-term debt

19

Philips Group
Short-term debt in millions of EUR
2017 - 2018

Philips Group
Provisions in millions of EUR
2017 - 2018
2017

Short-term bank
borrowings
Forward contracts

Provisions

2018

71

76

49

88

Current portion of
long-term debt

552

1,230

Short-term debt

672

1,394

During 2018, the weighted average interest rate on the
bank borrowings was 15.0% (2017: 3.3%). The increase
was mainly driven by a higher relative amount of
borrowings in high interest rate countries. In addition,
there was an increase in interest rates in these countries
during 2018.

2017
longterm

shortterm

Postemployment
benefit
(see
note 20)
973
Product
warranty

2018
total

longterm

973

835

shortterm

total

835

44

157

201

37

153

190

Environmental
provisions
140

19

160

124

20

144

Restructuringrelated
provisions
25

87

112

45

68

114

Litigation
provisions

24

50

17

9

26

26

Other
provisions

451

113

564

730

112

842

Provisions

1,659

400

2,059

1,788

363

2,151

Annual Report 2018

153

Statements 11.1.9

Assurance-type product warranty
The provisions for assurance-type product warranty
reflect the estimated costs of replacement and free-ofcharge services that will be incurred by the company
with respect to products sold.

The additions and the releases of the provisions
originate from additional insights in relation to factors
like the estimated cost of remediation, changes in
regulatory requirements and efficiencies in completion
of various site work phases.

The company expects the provisions to be utilized
mainly within the next year.

Restructuring-related provisions
Philips Group
Restructuring-related provisions in millions of EUR
2018

Philips Group
Provisions for assurance-type product warranty in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
Balance as of January 1

2016

2017

2018

289

259

201

Changes:
Additions
Utilizations

325

283

248

(357)

(270)

(261)

Transfer to liabilities directly
associated with assets held for sale
Balance as of December 31

additions

utilizations

releases

Dec. 31,
2018

Diagnosis
&
Treatment

38

60

(32)

(11)

55

Connected
Care &
Health
Informatics

20

19

(13)

(8)

18

Personal
Health

(56)

Translation differences and other

Jan. 1,
2018

2

(16)

2

259

201

190

Environmental provisions
The environmental provisions include accrued costs
recorded with respect to environmental remediation in
various countries. In the United States, subsidiaries of
the company have been named as potentially
responsible parties in state and federal proceedings for
the clean-up of certain sites.
Provisions for environmental remediation can change
significantly due to the emergence of additional
information regarding the extent or nature of the
contamination, the need to utilize alternative
technologies, actions by regulatory authorities as well
as changes in judgments and discount rates.

7

14

(6)

(1)

14

Other

47

42

(47)

(16)

26

Philips
Group

112

136

(98)

(37)

114

In 2018, the most significant restructuring projects
impacted Diagnosis & Treatment, Connected Care &
Health Informatics and Other businesses and mainly
took place in the Netherlands, Germany and the US.
The restructuring comprised mainly product portfolio
rationalization and the reorganization of global support
functions.
The company expects the provisions to be utilized
mainly within the next year.
2017
In 2017, the most significant restructuring projects
impacted Diagnosis & Treatment and Other businesses
and mainly took place in the Netherlands and the US.

Approximately EUR 70 million of the long term
provision is expected to be utilized after one to five
years, with the remainder after five years. For more
details on the environmental remediation reference is
made to Contingent assets and liabilities, starting on
page 162.

The movements in the provisions for restructuring in
2017 are presented by segment as follows:
Philips Group
Restructuring-related provision in millions of EUR
2017

Philips Group
Environmental provisions in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
Balance as of January 1

releases

Dec.
other
31,
)
1
changes 2017

2017

2018

321

160

Diagnosis &
Treatment

13

46

(16)

(5)

(1)

38

Connected
Care &
Health
Informatics

13

27

(12)

(6)

(1)

20

18

18

23

(24)

(21)

(15)

Releases

(36)

(8)

(4)

Changes in discount rate

11

11

(28)

Accretion

7

6

5

Other

10

(20)

4

Transfer to liabilities directly
associated with assets held for sale
Balance as of December 31

utilizations

335

Utilizations

Translation differences and other

additions

2016
Changes:
Additions

Jan.
1,
2017

(146)
321

160

144

Personal
Health

5

14

(5)

(6)

(1)

7

37

55

(27)

(16)

(1)

47

Lighting
(now
Signify)

133

9

(35)

(3)

(104)

Philips
Group

201

150

(96)

(37)

(107)

1)

112

Other changes primarily relate to translation differences and
reclassification to liabilities directly associated with assets held for
sale.

154

Annual Report 2018

Statements 11.1.9

2016
In 2016, the most significant restructuring projects
mainly impacted Other and mainly took place in the
Netherlands.

settlements were subsequently paid out in the
respective following year.
For more details reference is made to Contingent assets
and liabilities, starting on page 162.

The movements in the provisions for restructuring in
2016 are presented by segment as follows:
Philips Group
Restructuring-related provisions in millions of EUR
2016
Jan.
1,
2016

additions

utilizations

releases

Dec.
other
31,
)
changes 1 2016

Diagnosis &
Treatment

28

11

(19)

(6)

(1)

13

Connected
Care &
Health
Informatics

21

11

(14)

(6)

1

13

Personal
Health

32

7

(29)

(2)

(3)

5

Other

38

34

(17)

(20)

2

37

Lighting
(now
Signify)

178

95

(118)

(27)

5

133

Philips
Group

297

158

(197)

(61)

4

201

1)

Other changes primarily relate to translation differences and
transfers between segments

Litigation provisions
The Company and certain of its group companies and
former group companies are involved as a party in legal
proceedings, including regulatory and other
governmental proceedings.
Philips Group
Litigation provisions in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
Balance as of January 1

2016

2017

2018

578

96

50

Masimo Corporation (Masimo) patent litigation
On October 1, 2014, a jury awarded USD 467 million to
Masimo Corporation (Masimo) in a trial held before the
United States District Court for the District of Delaware.
The decision by the jury completed an initial phase of a
three-phase trial regarding a first lawsuit started by
Masimo against the company in 2009. A second lawsuit
was started by Masimo against the company in 2016.
Between the two lawsuits, claims were raised by the
parties against each other relating to patent
infringement and antitrust violations in the field of pulse
oximetry.
On November 5, 2016, the company and Masimo
entered into a wide-ranging, multi-year business
partnership involving both companies’ innovations in
patient monitoring and therapy solutions, ending all
pending lawsuits between the two companies,
including releasing the company from paying the USD
467 million jury verdict.
The company and Masimo also agreed to:
• a USD 300 million cash payment by Philips to
Masimo;
• a one-time donation to the Masimo Foundation of
USD 5 million to support the Masimo Foundation’s
project on patient safety and better outcomes;
• commitments of the company with respect to sales
targets, marketing and product integration over the
coming years of about USD 136 million.

Changes:
Additions

31

40

17

(313)

(52)

(29)

Releases

(98)

(11)

(11)

Reclassifications 1)

(125)

2

-

3

2

Utilizations 1)

Changes in discount rate

5

Accretion

8

Transfer to liabilities directly
associated with assets held for sale

(21)

Translation differences and other

10

(7)

(3)

Balance as of December 31

96

50

26

1)

The presentation of prior-year information has been reclassified
to conform to the current-year presentation.

The most significant proceedings
The majority of the movements in the above schedule
related to the Cathode Ray Tube (CRT) antitrust
litigation and Masimo Corporation (Masimo) patent
litigation.
Cathode Ray Tube (CRT) antitrust litigation
In 2016, 2017 and 2018 the majority of the movements in
relation to the CRT antitrust litigation were utilizations
due to the transfer to other liabilities for which the
company was able to reach a settlement. These

Entering into the agreements resulted in a payment of
USD 305 million (EUR 280 million) in November 2016, a
release of litigation provisions of USD 86 million (EUR
79 million) and a liability reclassification from litigation
provisions to other provisions of USD 136 million (EUR
125 million).
The utilizations and reclassifications in 2016 mainly
related to Masimo. Reclassifications include
reclassification from litigation provisions to other
provisions.
Other
In 2018 the translation differences in the schedule
above are mainly explained by the movements in the
BRL/EUR rate which impacted the litigation provisions
denominated in BRL. In 2017 the translation differences
are mainly explained by the movements in the USD/
EUR rate which impacted the litigation provisions
denominated in USD.
The company expects the provisions to be utilized
mainly within the next three years.

Annual Report 2018

155

Statements 11.1.9

Other provisions

the countries involved. All funded post-employment
plans are considered to be related parties.

Philips Group
Other provisions in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
Balance as of January 1

2016

2017

2018

604

733

564

Changes:
Additions 1)

183

241

176

(167)

(175)

(226)

Releases

(61)

(88)

(58)

Reclassification

142

4

2

Accretion

8

-

14

Acquisitions

-

62

367

Utilizations 1)

Transferred to liabilities directly
associated with assets held for sale
Translation differences and other

(156)
24

(56)

3

733

564

842

The presentation of prior-year information has been reclassified
to conform to the current-year presentation.

The larger funded DB and DC plans are governed by
independent Trustees who have a legal obligation to
protect the interests of all plan members and operate
under the local regulatory framework.

In 2018 the acquisitions through business combinations
mainly consists of a provision for contingent
consideration of EUR 239 million relating to the
acquisition of EPD. For more details reference is made
to Acquisitions and divestments, starting on page 27

The average duration of the defined benefit obligation
(DBO) of the DB plans is 11 years (2017: 12 years).

Balance as of December 31
1)

The main elements of other provisions are:
• provisions for possible taxes/social security of EUR
65 million (2017: EUR 97 million);
• onerous contract provisions for unfavorable supply
contracts as part of divestment transactions,
onerous (sub)lease contracts and expected losses
on existing projects /orders totaling EUR 18 million
(2017: EUR 31 million);
• provisions for employee jubilee funds EUR 73 million
(2017: EUR 57 million);
• self-insurance provisions of EUR 45 million (2017:
EUR 48 million);
• provisions for decommissioning costs of EUR 32
million (2017: EUR 32 million);
• provisions for rights of return of EUR 35 million (2017:
EUR 37 million);
• provisions for other employee benefits and
obligatory severance payments of EUR 13 million
(2017: EUR 24 million);
• provisions for contingent considerations of EUR 409
million (2017: EUR 66 million);
• the release in 2017 of EUR 88 million is due to the
reassessment of our positions in other provisions.
The company expects the provisions to be utilized
mainly within the next five years, except for:
• provisions for employee jubilee funds of which over
a half is expected to be utilized after five years;
• provisions for decommissioning costs of which over
half is expected to be utilized after five years;
• provisions for rights of return to be utilized mainly
within the next year.
20

156

Most employees that take part in a company pension
plan are covered by defined contribution (DC) pension
plans. The main DC plans are in the Netherlands and
the United States. The company also sponsors a
number of defined benefit (DB) pension plans. The
benefits provided by these plans are based on
employees’ years of service and compensation levels.
The company also sponsors a limited number of DB
retiree medical plans. The benefits provided by these
plans typically cover a part of the healthcare costs after
retirement.

Post-employment benefits
Employee post-employment plans have been
established in many countries in accordance with the
legal requirements, customs and the local practice in

Annual Report 2018

The largest DB plans in 2018 are in the United States
and Germany. These plans account for approximately
88% of the total DBO.
The United States
The US DB pension plans are closed plans without
future pension accrual. For the funding of any deficit in
the US plan the Group adheres to the minimum funding
requirements of the US Pension Protection Act.
The assets of the US funded pension plans are in Trusts
governed by Trustees. The excess pension plans that
covered accrual above the maximum salary of the
funded plan are unfunded.
The company’s qualified pension commitments in the
United States are covered via the Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) which charges a fee to US
companies providing DB pension plans. The fee is also
dependent on the amount of unfunded liabilities.
In 2018, the company paid an additional de-risking
contribution into the US plan of EUR 130 million (USD
150 million).
Germany
The company has several DB plans in Germany which
for the largest part are unfunded, meaning that after
retirement the company is responsible for the benefit
payments to retirees.
Due to the relatively high level of social security in
Germany, the company’s pension plans mainly provide
benefits for the higher earners and are open for future
pension accrual. Indexation is mandatory due to legal
requirements. Some of the German plans have a DC
design, but are accounted for as DB plans due to a legal
minimum return requirement.

Statements 11.1.9

Company pension commitments in Germany are partly
protected against employer bankruptcy via the
“Pensions Sicherungs Verein” which charges a fee to all
German companies providing pension promises.
Philips is one of the sponsors of Philips Pensionskasse
VVaG in Germany, which is a multi-employer plan. The
plan is classified and accounted for as a DC plan.
Risks related to DB plans
DB plans expose the company to various demographic
and economic risks such as longevity risk, investment
risks, currency and interest rate risk and in some cases
inflation risk. The latter plays a role in the assumed
wage increase but more importantly in some countries
where indexation of pensions is mandatory. Pension
fund Trustees are responsible for and have full
discretion over the investment strategy of the plan
assets. In general Trustees manage pension fund risks
by diversifying the investments of plan assets and by
(partially) matching interest rate risk of liabilities.
The company has an active de-risking strategy in which
it constantly looks for opportunities to reduce the risks
associated with its DB plans. Liability-driven investment
strategies, lump sum cash-out options, buy-ins, buyouts and a change to DC are examples of the strategy.
Investment policy in our largest pension plans
The trustees of the Philips pension plans are
responsible for and have full discretion over the
investment strategy of the plan assets.
The plan assets of the Philips pension plans are
invested in well diversified portfolios. The interest rate
sensitivity of the fixed income portfolio is closely
aligned to that of the plan’s pension liabilities. Any
contributions from the sponsoring company are used to
further increase the fixed income part of the assets. As
part of the investment strategy, any additional

investment returns of the return portfolio are used to
further decrease the interest rate mismatch between
the plan assets and the pension liabilities.
Summary of pre-tax costs for post-employment
benefits and reconciliations
The adjacent table contains the total of current and
past service costs, administration costs and settlement
results as included in Income from operations and the
interest cost as included in Financial expenses.
Philips Group
Pre-tax costs for post-employment benefits in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018
Defined-benefit plans
- included in income from
operations
- included in financial expense

2016

2017

2018

58

95

46

(19) 1)

32

23

48

37

23

- included in Discontinued
operations

29

26

Defined-contribution plans

392

397

327

- included in income from
operations

299

315

327

- included in Discontinued
operations

93

82

450

492

Post-employment benefits
costs

374

1)

The net income mainly relates to the settlement of the pension
related legal claim in the UK

Summary of the net defined benefit liability and
reconciliations
The adjacent tables contain the total net defined
benefit liability and the reconciliations for the DBO and
plan assets.
The negative past service cost in 2018 relates to plan
amendments in Brazil and Switzerland.
Reconciliations for the DBO and plan assets for DB
plans:

Philips Group
Defined-benefit obligations in millions of EUR
2017 - 2018
Balance as of January 1

2017

2018

4,987

3,109

Service cost

34

27

Interest cost

126

85

4

4

Employee contributions
Actuarial (gains) / losses
– demographic assumptions

(14)

4

– financial assumptions

75

(131)

– experience adjustment

(15)

5

1

(6)

(Negative) past service cost
Settlements
Benefits paid from plan
Benefits paid directly by employer
Transfer to Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 1)

(348)

(0)

(172)

(152)

(52)

(42)

(1,210)

Translation differences and other

(307)

94

Balance as of December 31

3,109

2,998

Present value of funded obligations at end of year

2,476

2,388

633

610

Present value of unfunded obligations at end of year
1)

The amount presented under 'Transfer to Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale' in 2017 relates to Signify (former Philips
Lighting)

Annual Report 2018

157

Statements 11.1.9

Philips Group
Plan assets in millions of EUR
2017 - 2018
Balance as of January 1

Reconciliation for the effect of the asset ceiling:
2017

2018

3,095

2,137

Interest income on plan assets

87

62

Admin expenses paid

(2)

(1)

Return on plan assets excluding interest
income

70

(129)

4

4

Employer contributions

263

159

Benefits paid from plan

(348)

(0)

(172)

(152)

Transfer to Assets classified as held for
sale 1)

(642)

-

Translation differences and other

(218)

83

Balance as of December 31

2,137

2,164

Funded status

(972)

(834)

(972)

(834)

Unrecognized net assets
Net balance sheet position

2017
Balance as of January 1

105

Interest on unrecognized assets

Employee contributions
Settlements

Philips Group
Changes in the effect of the asset ceiling in millions of EUR
2017

4

Remeasurements

(100)

Translation differences

(9)

Balance as of December 31

Due to the settlement of the Brazil pension plan in 2017
there is no effect of the asset ceiling remaining as of 31
December 2017 onwards.
Plan assets allocation
The asset allocation in the company’s DB plans at
December 31 was as follows:

1)

The amount presented under 'Transfer to Liabilities directly
associated with assets held for sale' in 2017 relates to Signify
(former Philips Lighting)
Philips Group
Plan assets allocation in millions of EUR
2017 - 2018
2017

2018

1,142

1,294

Assets quoted in active markets
- Debt securities
- Equity securities

69

- Other

137

161

Assets not quoted in active markets
- Debt securities
- Equity securities
- Other
Total assets

14

12

457

368

318

329

2,137

2,164

The assets in 2018 contain 33% (2017: 37%) unquoted assets. Plan assets in 2018 do not include property occupied by or
financial instruments issued by the company.

158

Annual Report 2018

Statements 11.1.9

Assumptions
The mortality tables used for the company’s largest DB
plans are:

Cash flows and costs in 2019
The company expects considerable cash outflows in
relation to post-employment benefits which are
estimated to amount to EUR 402 million in 2019,
consisting of:

• US: RP2014 with MP2018 improvement scale for
qualified and retiree medical plan; RP2006 with
MP2018 improvement scale + white collar
adjustment for the unfunded excess plans
• Germany: Heubeck-Richttafeln 2018 Generational

• EUR 20 million employer contributions to funded DB
plans (US: EUR 0 million, DE: EUR 13 million, Other:
EUR 7 million);
• EUR 42 million cash outflows in relation to unfunded
DB plans (US: EUR 10 million, DE: EUR 19 million,
Other: EUR 13 million); and
• EUR 340 million employer contributions to DC plans
(NL: EUR 168 million, US: EUR 118 million, Other: EUR
54 million).

The weighted averages of the assumptions used to
calculate the DBO as of December 31 were as follows:
Philips Group
Assumptions used for defined-benefit obligations in %
2017- 2018
2017

2018

Discount rate

2.8%

3.2%

Inflation rate

2.1%

2.1%

Salary increase

2.4%

2.4%

Sensitivity analysis
The tables below illustrates the approximate impact on
the DBO from movements in key assumptions. The DBO
was recalculated using a change in the assumptions of
1% which overall is considered a reasonably possible
change. The impact on the DBO because of changes in
discount rate is normally accompanied by offsetting
movements in plan assets, especially when using
matching strategies.
Philips Group
Sensitivity of key assumptions in millions of EUR
2018

The service and administration cost for 2019 is expected
to amount to EUR 31 million for DB plans. The net
interest cost for 2019 for the DB plans is expected to
amount to EUR 22 million. The cost for DC pension
plans in 2019 is equal to the expected DC cash flow.
21

Accrued liabilities
Accrued liabilities are summarized as follows:
Philips Group
Accrued liabilities in millions of EUR
2017 - 2018
2017

2018

- Salaries and wages

529

530

- Accrued holiday entitlements

109

111

71

73

- Gas, water, electricity, rent and other

52

36

Communication and IT costs

42

55

83

78

Personnel-related costs:

- Other personnel-related costs

Defined benefit obligation
Increase

Fixed-asset-related costs:

Discount rate (1% movement)

(298)

Inflation rate (1% movement)

97

Distribution costs

Salary increase (1% movement)

21

Sales-related costs:

Longevity 1)

65

- Commission payable
- Advertising and marketing-related costs

Decrease

7

6

174

179

367

- Other sales-related costs

38

28

Inflation rate (1% movement)

(89)

Material-related costs

110

112

Salary increase (1% movement)

(20)

Interest-related accruals

38

36

Discount rate (1% movement)

1)

The mortality table (i.e. longevity) also impacts the DBO. The
above sensitivity table illustrates the impact on the DBO of a
further 10% decrease in the assumed rates of mortality for the
company’s major schemes. A 10% decrease in assumed mortality
rates equals improvement of life expectancy by 0.5 - 1 year.

Deferred income 1)
Other accrued liabilities
Accrued liabilities

791
273

293

2,319

1,537

1)
Due to implementation of IFRS 15 balances included in deferred
income are now presented as contract liabilities.

Philips Group
Sensitivity of key assumptions in millions of EUR
2017
Defined benefit obligation
Increase
Discount rate (1% movement)

(323)

Inflation rate (1% movement)

85

Salary increase (1% movement)

20

Longevity 1)

72

Decrease
Discount rate (1% movement)

394

Inflation rate (1% movement)

(86)

Salary increase (1% movement)

(19)

1)

The mortality table (i.e. longevity) also impacts the DBO. The
above sensitivity table illustrates the impact on the DBO of a
further 10% decrease in the assumed rates of mortality for the
company’s major schemes. A 10% decrease in assumed mortality
rates equals improvement of life expectancy by 0.5 - 1 year.

Annual Report 2018

159

Statements 11.1.9

22

Other liabilities

The other liabilities per December 31, 2017 and 2018
include reclassifications from litigation provisions to
liabilities due to settlements reached. For more details
reference is made to Litigation provisions in Provisions,
starting on page 153 and to Legal proceedings in
Contingent assets and liabilities, starting on page 162.

Other non-current liabilities
Other non-current liabilities are summarized as follows:
Philips Group
Other non-current liabilities in millions of EUR
2017 - 2018
2017
Deferred income 1)

249

Other tax liability

161

Other liabilities

65

72

474

253

Other non-current liabilities

Contract liabilities
Non-current contract liabilities were EUR 226 million at
December 31, 2018 (2017: EUR 249 million) and current
contract liabilities were EUR 1,303 million at December
31, 2018 (2017: EUR 1,163 million).

2018
181

1)
Due to implementation of IFRS 15 balances included in deferred
income are now presented as contract liabilities.

The current contract liabilities increased with EUR 140
million. The year-on-year change is mainly driven by an
increase in contractual billings.

The other non-current liabilities decreased with EUR 221
million. This increase is mainly driven by the change of
presentation of balances included in deferred income.

The current contract liabilities as per December 31, 2017
resulted in revenue recognized of EUR 1,163 million in
2018.

For further details on tax related liabilities refer to
Income taxes, starting on page 138.
23

Other current liabilities
Other current liabilities are summarized as follows:
Philips Group
Other current liabilities in millions of EUR
2017 - 2018
2017

2018

Accrued customer rebates that cannot be
offset with accounts receivables for those
customers

435

422

Advances received from customers on
orders not covered by work in process 1)

372

Other taxes including social security
premiums

164

Other liabilities

155

137

1,126

737

Other current liabilities

178

1)
Due to implementation of IFRS 15 balances included in advances
received from customers on orders not covered by work in progress
are now presented as contract liabilities.

The other current liabilities decreased with EUR 389
million. This decrease is mainly driven by the change of
presentation of balances included in advances received
from customers on orders not covered by work in
process.

160

Annual Report 2018

Cash flow statement supplementary information
Net cash used for derivatives and current financial
assets
In 2018, a total of EUR 177 million cash was paid with
respect to foreign exchange derivative contracts related
to activities for liquidity management and funding (2017:
EUR 295 million outflow; 2016: EUR 128 million outflow).
Purchase and proceeds from non-current financial
assets
In 2018, the net cash inflow of EUR 43 million was
mainly due to inflows from the repayment of loans
receivable, the sale of stakes and capital distributions
from investment funds, partly offset by an outflow due
to capital contributions into investment funds.
In 2017, the net cash outflow of EUR 36 million was
mainly due to capital contributions in Gilde and Abraaj
Growth Markets Fund and the acquisition of other
stakes.
In 2016, the net cash inflow of EUR 39 million was
mainly due to the acquisition of stakes in Abraaj Growth
Markets Fund.

Statements 11.1.9

Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities
Philips Group
Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities in millions of EUR
2017 - 2018
Balance as of
Dec. 31, 2017
Long term debt 2)

Cash flow

Currency effects and
consolidation changes

Other 1)

Balance as of
Dec. 31, 2018
4,657

4,595

126

45

(109)

USD bonds

2,137

(866)

31

-

1,303

EUR bonds

997

990

1

1,988

Bank borrowings

211

190

21

-

-

Other long-term debt

20

(1)

-

-

18

Finance leases

281

(18)

13

53

330

Forward contracts 3)

970

(163)

807

120

34

(29)

39

164

71

34

(29)

Short term debt 2)
Short-term bank borrowings

76

Other short-term loans
Forward contracts 3)
Equity

49
(1,500)

Dividend payable
Forward contracts 3)
Treasury shares

88

1,558

(1,293)

(404)

404
124

(894)

(948)

1,030

(399)

(1,018)
(481)

Total
1)

39
(1,351)

(1,192)

Besides non-cash, other includes interest paid on finance leases, which is part of cash flows from operating activities

2)
Long-term debt includes the short-term portion of long-term debt, and short-term debt excludes the short-term portion of the long-term
debt.
3)

The forward contracts are related to the share buyback program and LTI plans

Philips Group
Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities in millions of EUR
2016 - 2017

Cash
flow 1)

Transfer to liabilities
directly associated with
assets held for sale

Currency
effects and
consolidation
changes

Other 2)

Balance as of
Dec. 31, 2017

5,396

(217)

(1,255)

(327)

998

4,595

3,608

(1,184)

(287)

1

2,137

-

997
190

Balance as
of Dec. 31,
2016
Long term debt 3)
USD bonds
EUR bonds
Bank borrowings

997
1,470

(22)

(1,238)

(21)

-

39

(20)

-

1

(1)

20

279

12

(18)

(20)

29

281

970

970

210

(4)

(86)

(49)

49

120

207

(3)

(84)

(49)

2

(1)

(2)

49

49

(181)

168

(1,487)

(1,500)

Sale of Lighting (now Signify)
shares

1,060

(1,060)

Dividend payable

(478)

Other long-term debt
Finance leases
Forward contracts 4)
Short term debt 3)
Short-term bank borrowings
Other short-term loans

71

Forward contracts 4)
Equity

478

Forward contracts 4)
Treasury shares
Total

(181)

(414)

(1,018)

(1,018)

114

(481)

(53)

1)
Cash flow includes cash movements related to Lighting from January to April 2017, and therefore does not equal cash flow financing activities in
the consolidated statements of cash flows.
2)

Besides non-cash, other includes interest paid on finance leases, which is part of cash flows from operating activities

3)

Long-term debt includes the short-term portion of long-term debt, and short-term debt excluding the short-term portion of long-term debt.

4)

The forward contracts are mainly related to the share buyback program

Annual Report 2018

161

Statements 11.1.9

24

Contingent assets and liabilities
Contingent assets
As per December 31, 2018, the company had no
material contingent assets.
Contingent liabilities
Guarantees
Philips’ policy is to provide guarantees and other letters
of support only in writing. Philips does not stand by
other forms of support. The total fair value of
guarantees recognized on the balance sheet amounts
to EUR nil million for both 2017 and 2018. Remaining
off-balance-sheet business and credit-related
guarantees provided on behalf of third parties and
associates decreased by EUR 3 million during 2018 to
EUR 40 million (December 31, 2017: EUR 44 million).
Environmental remediation
The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to
environmental laws and regulations. Under these laws,
the Company and/or its subsidiaries may be required to
remediate the effects of certain manufacturing activities
on the environment.
Legal proceedings
The Company and certain of its group companies and
former group companies are involved as a party in legal
proceedings, regulatory and other governmental
proceedings, including discussions on potential
remedial actions, relating to such matters as
competition issues, commercial transactions, product
liability, participations and environmental pollution.
While it is not feasible to predict or determine the
ultimate outcome of all pending or threatened legal
proceedings, regulatory and governmental proceedings,
the Company is of the opinion that the cases described
below may have, or have had in the recent past, a
significant impact on the Company’s consolidated
financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
Cathode Ray Tubes (CRT)
Starting in 2007, competition law authorities in several
jurisdictions had commenced investigations into
possible anticompetitive activities in the Cathode Ray
Tubes, or CRT industry. On December 5, 2012, this lead
to a European Commission decision imposing fines on
(former) CRT manufacturers including the company. The
European Commission imposed a fine of EUR 313
million on the company and a fine of EUR 392 million
jointly and severally on the company and LG
Electronics, Inc (LGE). In total a payable of EUR 509
million was recognized in 2012 and the fine was paid in
the first quarter of 2013. The company appealed the
decision of the European Commission with the General
Court and later with European Court of Justice. These
appeals were denied on September 9, 2015 and
September 15, 2017 respectively. No further appeals are
pending. Please refer to Subsequent events, starting on
page 179 for a recent claim filed in connection with the
CRT matter.

162

Annual Report 2018

United States and Canada
Subsequent to the public announcement of these
investigations in 2007, certain Philips Group companies
were named as defendants in class action antitrust
complaints by direct and indirect purchasers of CRTs
filed in various federal district courts in the United
States. These actions alleged anticompetitive conduct
by manufacturers of CRTs and sought treble damages
on a joint and several liability basis. In addition, sixteen
individual plaintiffs, principally large retailers of CRT
products who opted out of the direct purchaser class,
filed separate complaints against the company and
other defendants based on the same substantive
allegations. All these actions were consolidated for pretrial proceedings in the United States District Court for
the Northern District of California. In addition, the state
attorneys general of California, Florida, Illinois, Oregon
and Washington filed actions against the company and
other defendants seeking to recover damages on behalf
of the states and, acting as parens patriae, their
consumers.
All actions have been settled or otherwise resolved. The
indirect purchaser settlement that was approved by the
United States District Court for the Northern District of
California in 2016, is now again pending before the
District Court after it had been remanded to the District
Court by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in February
2019.
In 2007, certain Philips Group companies were also
being named as defendants in proposed class
proceedings in Ontario, Quebec and British Columbia,
Canada, along with numerous other participants in the
industry. In 2017, a settlement has been reached for all
three proposed class actions which was approved by
the courts in 2018.
Other jurisdictions
In 2014, the company was named as a defendant in a
consumer class action lawsuit filed in Israel in which
damages are claimed against several defendants based
on alleged anticompetitive activities in the CRT industry.
In addition, an electronics manufacturer filed a claim
against the company and several co-defendants with a
court in the Netherlands and Turkey, also seeking
compensation for the alleged damage sustained as a
result from the alleged anticompetitive activities in the
CRT industry. In 2015 and 2016, the company became
involved in further civil CRT antitrust litigation with
previous CRT customers based in the United Kingdom,
Germany, Brazil and Denmark. In 2018 a case in
Germany and in Denmark were settled while two new
cases were brought in the United Kingdom.
Currently two cases are pending before the Dutch
courts (one of which is also subject to parallel
proceedings in Turkey), one case pending before the
Israeli court, two cases are pending before the German
courts and three cases have been filed in the United
Kingdom. Except for the case in Israel where the
plaintiffs are a purported class of consumers, all
plaintiffs are television or monitor manufacturers who
acquired either CRT’s to be integrated in their finished

Statements 11.1.9

products or OEM monitors containing CRT’s. In all cases,
the same substantive allegations about anticompetitive
activities in the CRT industry are made and damages
are sought. Despite prior settlements, the company has
concluded that due to the specific circumstances in the
cases that settled and the particularities and
considerable uncertainty associated with the remaining
matters, based on current knowledge, potential losses
cannot be reliably estimated with respect to these
matters.

Philips and Signify have several agreements in place
which impact the related party balances disclosed.
There is a Transitional Service Level Agreement, based
on which Philips provides Signify with services such as
IT, real estate and human resources among others.
Additionally, a Trademark License Agreement was
signed in which Signify uses the Philips brand name.
From December 31, 2018 Philips has no longer
significant influence over Signify and therefore Signify
ceased to be a related party. As a result, receivables
from and payables to related parties in relation Signify
are not included in the table below.

Connected Care & Health Informatics
On July 4, 2018 the Public Prosecution Service in Rio de
Janeiro and representatives from the Brazilian antitrust
authority CADE inspected the offices of more than 30
companies, including Philips, in São Paulo. The Brazilian
authorities are conducting an investigation into tender
irregularities in the medical device industry. The
company has also received inquiries from certain US
authorities in respect of this matter.

For details of these parties in which Philips typically
holds between 20% and 50% equity interest, refer to
the Investments in associates section of Interests in
entities, starting on page 134. For details on the Philips
ownership changes in Signify, refer to Discontinued
operations and assets classified as held for sale, starting
on page 131.
Philips Group
Related-party transactions in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018

Personal Health
In April 2017, the company received a Civil Investigative
Demand (CID) out of the US Attorney’s Office in
Northern District of Iowa. The CID relates to an
evaluation of the appropriateness of certain sleep and
respiratory care equipment financing programs
available for Respironics’ products. In addition, in late
2017, the company received an information request
from the Department of Justice regarding the
relationship between Respironics’ business and certain
sleep centers that use Respironics’ products. In 2018 the
company has provided the requested information to the
US government and is awaiting next steps. The
company has not been advised that any claim has been
asserted by the US government in connection with
these matters and it continues to cooperate fully in both
inquiries.

Sales of goods and services

25

Related-party transactions
In the normal course of business, Philips purchases and
sells goods and services from/to various related parties
in which Philips typically holds between 20% and 50%
equity interest and has significant influence. These
transactions are generally conducted with terms
comparable to transactions with third parties.
From November 28, 2017, Philips lost control over
Signify but still had significant influence. This has
resulted in Signify becoming a non-consolidated
related party which is reported in the table below for
the time period January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018.

2017

2018

207

196

232

Purchases of goods and
services

81

62

67

Receivables from related parties

33

127

28

3

36

1

Payables to related parties

In addition to the table above, as part of its operations
in the US, Philips sold non-recourse third-party
receivables to PMC US amounting to EUR 244 million in
2018 (2017: EUR 151 million; 2016: EUR 139 million).
In light of the composition of the Executive Committee,
the Company considers the members of the Executive
Committee and the Supervisory Board to be the key
management personnel as defined in IAS 24 ‘Related
parties’.

Given the uncertain nature of the relevant events and
liabilities, it is not practicable to provide information on
the estimate of the financial effect, if any, or timing. The
outcome of the uncertain events could have a material
impact on the Company’s consolidated financial
position, results of operations and cash flows.
Miscellaneous
For details on other contractual obligations, please refer
to liquidity risk in Details of Treasury risk / other
financial risk, starting on page 174.

2016

For remuneration details of the Executive Committee,
the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board
see Information on remuneration, starting on page 166.
For Post-employment benefit plans see Postemployment benefits, starting on page 156.
26

Share-based compensation
The purpose of the share-based compensation plans is
to align the interests of management with those of
shareholders by providing incentives to improve the
company’s performance on a long-term basis, thereby
increasing shareholder value.
The Company has the following plans:
• performance shares: rights to receive common
shares in the future based on performance and
service conditions;
• restricted shares: rights to receive common shares in
the future based on a service condition; and
• options on its common shares, including the 2012
and 2013 Accelerate! grant.
Annual Report 2018

163

Statements 11.1.9

Since 2013 the Board of Management and other
members of the Executive Committee are only granted
performance shares. Restricted shares are granted to
executives, certain selected employees and new
employees. Prior to 2013 options were also granted.

selected peers. The following weighted-average
assumptions were used for the 2018 grants:

Under the terms of employee stock purchase plans
established by the Company in various countries,
employees are eligible to purchase a limited number of
Philips shares at discounted prices through payroll
withholdings.

The assumptions were used for these calculations only
and do not necessarily represent an indication of
Management’s expectation of future developments for
other purposes. The company has based its volatility
assumptions on historical experience measured over a
ten-year period.

Share-based compensation costs were EUR 102 million
(2017: EUR 122 million; 2016: EUR 95 million). This
includes the employee stock purchase plan of EUR 5
million, which is not a share-based compensation that
affects equity. In the Consolidated statements of
changes in equity EUR 107 million is recognized in 2018
and represent the costs of the share-based
compensation plans, including EUR 10 million of costs
of former Philips employees which are now employed
with Signify. The amount recognized as an expense is
adjusted for forfeiture. USD-denominated performance
shares, restricted shares and options are granted to
employees in the United States only.
Performance shares
The performance is measured over a three-year
performance period. The performance shares have two
performance conditions, relative Total Shareholders’
Return compared to a peer group of 20 companies
including Philips (2017: 20 companies, 2016: 21
companies) and adjusted Earnings Per Share growth.
The performance shares vest three years after the grant
date. The number of performance shares that will vest is
dependent on achieving the two performance
conditions, which are equally weighted, and provided
that the grantee is still employed with the company.
The amount recognized as an expense is adjusted for
actual performance of adjusted Earnings Per Share
growth since this is a non-market performance
condition. It is not adjusted for non-vesting or extra
vesting of performance shares due to a relative Total
Shareholders’ Return performance that differs from the
performance anticipated at the grant date, since this is a
market-based performance condition.
The fair value of the performance shares is measured
based on Monte-Carlo simulation, which takes into
account dividend payments between the grant date
and the vesting date by including reinvested dividends,
the market conditions expected to impact relative Total
Shareholders’ Return performance in relation to

164

Annual Report 2018

• Risk-free rate: (0.47)%
• Expected share price volatility: 22 %

A summary of the status of the company’s performance
share plans as of December 31, 2018 and changes
during the year are presented below:
Philips Group
Performance shares
2018

shares

weighted
average
grant-date
fair value

EUR-denominated
Outstanding at January 1, 2018 1)
Granted
Notional dividends 2)
Vested/Issued
Forfeited
Adjusted quantity 3)
Outstanding at December 31, 2018

6,828,444

29.15

1,322,107

39.22

112,952

32.21

4,237,835

28.50

415,273

29.61

1,127,703

28.97

4,738,099

32.54

4,396,514

31.96

907,782

47.50

USD-denominated
Outstanding at January 1, 2018 1)
Granted
Notional dividends 2)
Vested/Issued

70,579

37.51

2,840,286

30.14

Forfeited

424,139

36.12

Adjusted quantity 3)

767,599

30.32

2,878,048

23.71

Outstanding at December 31, 2018
1)

The outstanding number of performance shares as per January 1,
2018 was updated to reflect the dividend declared on outstanding
shares between grant date and vesting date that will be issued in
shares.
2)

Dividend declared in 2018 on outstanding shares.

3)

Adjusted quantity includes the adjustments made to
performance shares outstanding due to updates on the actual and
expected EPS.

At December 31, 2018, a total of EUR 111 million of
unrecognized compensation costs relate to non-vested
performance shares. These costs are expected to be
recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.85
years.

Statements 11.1.9

Restricted shares
The fair value of restricted shares is equal to the share
price at grant date. The Company issues restricted
shares that, in general, have a 3 year cliff-vesting period.
A summary of the status of the Company’s restricted
shares as of December 31, 2018 and changes during the
year are presented below:
Philips Group
Restricted shares
2018

shares

weighted
average
grant-date
fair value

EUR-denominated
Outstanding at January 1, 2018 1)
Granted

1,807,009

27.72

729,798

33.15

52,317

29.58

Vested/Issued

193,968

25.40

Forfeited

174,266

28.52

2,220,891

29.69

1,753,505

31.26

Granted

717,654

36.67

Notional dividends 2)

48,082

33.35

Notional dividends 2)

Outstanding at December 31, 2018
USD-denominated
Outstanding at January 1, 2018 1)

Vested/Issued

Philips Group
Options on EUR-denominated listed share
2018

options

weighted
average
exercise price

Outstanding at January 1, 2018

2,772,210

19.49

Exercised

1,024,063

20.14

99,427

22.52

Expired
Outstanding at December 31, 2018

1,648,720

18.90

Exercisable at December 31, 2018

1,648,720

18.90

The exercise prices range from EUR 12.63 to EUR 24.90.
The weighted average remaining contractual term for
options outstanding and options exercisable at
December 31, 2018, was 2.3 years. The aggregate
intrinsic value of the options outstanding and options
exercisable at December 31, 2018, was EUR 20 million.
The total intrinsic value of options exercised during 2018
was EUR 15 million (2017: EUR 29 million, 2016: EUR 20
million).
Philips Group
Options on USD-denominated listed share
2018

options

407,743

28.84

Forfeited

205,630

33.97

Outstanding at January 1, 2018

Outstanding at December 31, 2018

1,905,867

33.58

Exercised

1)
Excludes premium shares on Restricted shares granted before
2013. (20% additional (premium) shares that may be received if
shares delivered under the plan are not sold for three-year period).
2)

Dividend declared in 2018 on outstanding shares.

At December 31, 2018, a total of EUR 59 million of
unrecognized compensation costs relate to non-vested
restricted shares. These costs are expected to be
recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.83
years.
Option plans
The Company granted options that expire after ten
years. These options vest after three years, provided
that the grantee is still employed with the company. All
outstanding options have vested as of December 31,
2018.
The following tables summarize information about the
Company’s options as of December 31, 2018 and
changes during the year:

weighted
average
exercise price

3,309,766

28.41

1,451,964

29.91

223,934

35.36

Outstanding at December 31, 2018

1,633,868

26.13

Exercisable at December 31, 2018

1,633,868

26.13

Expired

The exercise prices range from USD 16.76 to USD 36.63.
The weighted average remaining contractual term for
options outstanding and options exercisable at
December 31, 2018, was 2.3 years. The aggregate
intrinsic value of the options outstanding and options
exercisable at December 31, 2018, was USD 15 million.
The total intrinsic value of options exercised during 2018
was USD 16 million (2017: USD 22 million, 2016: USD 6
million).
At December 31, 2018 there were no unrecognized
compensation costs related to outstanding options.
Cash received from exercises under the Company’s
option plans amounted to EUR 57 million in 2018 (2017:
EUR 128 million, 2016: EUR 65 million). The actual tax
deductions realized as a result of USD option exercises
totaled approximately EUR 3 million in 2018 (2017: EUR
5 million, 2016: EUR 2 million).

Annual Report 2018

165

Statements 11.1.9

The outstanding options as of December 31, 2018 are
categorized in exercise price ranges as follows:

The exercise prices of the Accelerate! options are EUR
15.24 and EUR 22.43 for EUR-denominated options and
is USD 20.02 for USD-denominated options. The
weighted average remaining contractual term for EURdenominated Accelerate! options outstanding and
exercisable at December 31, 2018 was 3.3 years. The
weighted average remaining contractual term for USDAccelerate! options outstanding and exercisable at
December 31, 2018 was 3.1 years. The aggregate intrinsic
value of the EUR-denominated Accelerate! options
outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2018, was
EUR 4.3 million. The aggregate intrinsic value of the
USD-denominated Accelerate! options outstanding and
exercisable at December 31, 2018 was USD 1.9 million.

Philips Group
Outstanding options in millions of EUR
2018
weighted
average
remaining
contractual
term

options

intrinsic
value in
millions

10-15

701,262

11.6

2.7 yrs

15-20

22,011

0.3

3.0 yrs

EUR-denominated

20-25
Outstanding options

925,447
1,648,720

7.9

2.0 yrs

19.8

2.3 yrs

The total intrinsic value of Accelerate! options exercised
during 2018 was EUR 4 million for EUR-denominated
options (2017: EUR 6 million) and USD 1 million for USDdenominated options (2017: USD 1 million).

USD-denominated
15-20

645,598

10.4

2.7 yrs

20-25

23,925

0.3

3.0 yrs
2.3 yrs

25-30

595,675

3.3

30-35

368,670

0.7

1.4 yrs

Outstanding options

1,633,868

14.7

2.3 yrs

The aggregate intrinsic value in the tables and text
above represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value (the
difference between the Company’s closing share price
on the last trading day of 2018 and the exercise price,
multiplied by the number of in-the-money options) that
would have been received by the option holders if the
options had been exercised on December 31, 2018.
The following table summarizes information about the
Company’s Accelerate! options as of December 31, 2018
and changes during the year:
Philips Group
Accelerate! options
2018

options

weighted
average
exercise
price

Outstanding at January 1, 2018

481,200

16.06

Exercised

179,450

15.24

EUR-denominated

Expired

5,000

15.24

Outstanding at December 31, 2018

296,750

16.57

Exercisable at December 31, 2018

296,750

16.57

170,800

20.02

USD-denominated
Outstanding at January 1, 2018
Exercised

166

47,500

20.02

Outstanding at December 31, 2018

123,300

20.02

Exercisable at December 31, 2018

123,300

20.02

Annual Report 2018

Cash received from exercises for EUR-denominated and
USD-denominated Accelerate! options amounted to
EUR 4 million in 2018 (2017: EUR 8 million). The actual
tax deductions realized as a result of Accelerate! USD
options exercises totaled approximately EUR 0.2 million
in 2018 (2017: EUR 0.3 million).
27

Information on remuneration
Remuneration of the Executive Committee
In 2018, the total remuneration costs relating to the
members of the Executive Committee (consisting of 13
members, including the members of the Board of
Management) amounted to EUR 26,755,003 (2017: EUR
25,848,741; 2016: EUR 22,433,827) consisting of the
elements in the following table.

Statements 11.1.9

Philips Group
Remuneration costs of the Executive Committee 1) in EUR
2016-2018
2016

2017

2018

6,388,667

8,089,063

8,370,406

Annual incentive 2)

5,746,347

6,345,576

5,651,996

Performance shares 3) 4)

5,943,782

6,371,297

8,896,369

Base salary/Base compensation

Stock options 3)

-

-

-

764,311

885,343

492,237

Pension allowances 5)

1,854,129

1,886,963

1,919,839

Pension scheme costs

180,077

408,695

411,028

Other compensation 6)

1,556,514

1,861,803

1,013,128

Restricted share rights 3)

1)

The Executive Committee consisted of 13 members as per December 31, 2018 (2017: 12 members; 2016: 12 members)

2)

The annual incentives are related to the performance in the year reported which are paid out in the subsequent year.

3)

Costs of performance shares, stock options and restricted share rights are based on accounting standards (IFRS) and do not reflect the value of
stock options at the end of the lock up period and the value of performance shares and restricted share rights at the vesting/release date
4)

For 2018, a release of EUR 1,740,520 (2017: EUR 2,469,670; 2016: EUR 0) is included due to non-vesting of performance shares

5)

Pension allowances are gross taxable allowances paid to the Executive Committee members in the Netherlands. These allowances are part of
the pension arrangement
6)
The stated amounts mainly concern (share of) allowances to members of the Board of Management that can be considered as remuneration.
In a situation where such a share of an allowance can be considered as (indirect) remuneration (for example, private use of the company car),
then the share is both valued and accounted for here. The method employed by the fiscal authorities is the starting point for the value stated

At December 31, 2018, the members of the Executive Committee (including the members of the Board of Management)
held 333,670(2017: 541,400; 2016: 750,631) stock options at a weighted average exercise price of EUR 18.99 (2017: EUR
19.82; 2016: EUR 21.17).

Annual Report 2018

167

Statements 11.1.9

Remuneration of the Board of Management
In 2018, the total remuneration costs relating to the members of the Board of Management amounted to EUR 9,848,153
(2017: EUR 7,808,117; 2016: EUR 8,904,859), see table below.
Philips Group
Remuneration costs of individual members of the Board of Management in EUR
2016-2018
base
compenperforrestricted
sation/
annual
mance
stock
share
)
)
)
salary
incentive 1 shares 2
options 2
rights 2)

pension
pension
allowances 3) schemecosts

other
compensation

total
costs

2018
F.A. van Houten

1,205,000

1,264,286

2,319,460

-

588

537,181

25,708

39,042

5,391,265

A. Bhattacharya

718,750

637,536

942,220

-

129

217,823

25,708

53,522

2,595,688

711,806

M.J. van Ginneken

-

66

168,210

25,708

35,299

1,861,200

2,481,250

557,500

2,264,433

362,611

3,973,486

-

783

923,214

77,124

127,863

9,848,153

F.A. van Houten

1,205,000

1,270,166

1,975,277

-

4,034

537,621

25,278

84,053

5,101,429

A. Bhattacharya

687,500

553,392

669,396

-

888

210,450

25,278

100,918

2,247,822

P.A.J. Nota

606,250

429,886

(1,203,992)

-

(188)

236,208

21,065

63,576

152,805

91,667

69,168

100,022

-

75

27,796

4,213

13,120

306,061

2,590,417

2,322,612

1,540,703

-

4,809

1,012,075

75,834

261,667

7,808,117

F.A. van Houten

1,197,500

1,354,227

1,423,538

-

12,041

536,195

24,838

126,703

4,675,042

A. Bhattacharya

650,000

540,072

362,758

-

3,341

201,524

24,838

73,642

1,856,175

P.A.J. Nota

702,500

619,745

683,101

-

9,251

277,649

24,838

56,558

2,373,642

-

24,633

1,015,368

74,514

256,903

8,904,859

2017

M.J. van Ginneken

2016

2,550,000

2,514,044

2,469,397

1)

The annual incentives are related to the performance in the year reported which are paid out in the subsequent year. For more details on the
annual incentives refer to 2018 Annual Incentive, starting on page 70
2)
Costs of performance shares, stock options and restricted share rights are based on accounting standards (IFRS) and do not reflect the value of
stock options at the end of the lock up period and the value of performance shares and restricted share rights at the vesting/release date
3)
The stated amounts mainly concern (share of) allowances to members of the Executive Committee that can be considered as remuneration. In
a situation where such a share of an allowance can be considered as (indirect) remuneration (for example, private use of the company car), then
the share is both valued and accounted for here. The method employed by the fiscal authorities is the starting point for the value stated.

For further information on remuneration costs, see Remuneration costs, starting on page 69.
The tables below give an overview of the performance share plans and the stock option plans of the Company, held by
the members of the Board of Management:
Philips Group
Number of performance shares (holdings) in number of shares
2018

F.A. van Houten

A. Bhattacharya

M.J. van Ginneken

Performance shares (holdings)
1)

168

January 1,
2018

awarded 2018

awarded dividend
shares 2018

realized 2018

vesting
date

60,112

-

-

100,207

-

05.05.2018

62,880

-

1,423

-

64,303

04.29.2019

74,878

-

1,693

-

76,571

05.11.2020

-

69,005

1,561

-

70,566

04.27.2021

12,790 1)

-

-

21,312

-

05.05.2018

28,265 1)

-

640

-

28,905

04.29.2019

32,623

-

738

-

33,361

05.11.2020

-

31,138

704

-

31,842

04.27.2021

19,185 1)

-

-

31,981

-

05.05.2018

22,243 1)

-

503

-

22,746

04.29.2019

19,030 1)

-

431

-

19,461

05.11.2020

-

24,052

544

-

24,596

04.27.2021

332,006

124,195

8,237

153,500

372,351

Awarded before date of appointment as a member of the Board of Management

Annual Report 2018

December 31,
2018

Statements 11.1.9

At December 31, 2018, the members of the Board of Management held 333,670 stock options (2017: 333,670; 2016:
476,200) at a weighted average exercise price of EUR 18.99 (2017: EUR 18.99; 2016: EUR 19.47).
Philips Group
Stock options (holdings) number of shares
2018

F.A. van Houten

A. Bhattacharya

M.J. van
Ginneken

Stock options
(holdings)

January, 1
2018

granted

exercised

expired

December 31,
2018

grant price (in
euros)

share
(closing) price
on exercise
date

20,400

−

−

−

20,400

22.88

−

75,000

−

−

−

75,000

20.9

−

04.18.2021

75,000

−

−

−

75,000

14.82

−

04.23.2022

55,000

−

−

−

55,000

22.43

−

01.29.2023

16,500

−

−

−

16,500

22.88

−

10.18.2020

16,500

−

−

−

16,500

20.9

−

04.18.2021

20,000

−

−

−

20,000

15.24

−

01.30.2022

16,500

−

−

−

16,500

14.82

−

04.23.2022

5,250

−

−

−

5,250

12.63

−

04.14.2019

6,720

−

−

−

6,720

24.9

−

04.19.2020

10.18.2020

8,400

−

−

−

8,400

20.9

−

04.18.2021

10,000

−

−

−

10,000

15.24

−

01.30.2022

8,400

−

−

−

8,400

14.82

−

04.23.2022

333,670

−

−

−

333,670

See Notes, starting on page 112 for further information
on performance shares and stock options as well 2018
Long-Term Incentive Plan, starting on page 70.
The accumulated annual pension entitlements and the
pension costs of individual members of the Board of
Management are as follows (in EUR):
Philips Group
Accumulated annual pension entitlements and pension-related
costs in EUR
2018
accumulated
annual
pension as
total
age at
of
pension
December
December
related
31, 2018
31, 2018
costs
F.A. van Houten

58

298,470

562,889

A. Bhattacharya

57

27,383

243,531

M.J. van Ginneken

45

39,552

193,918

Pension costs

expiry date

1,000,338

−

When pension rights are granted to members of the
Board of Management, necessary payments (if insured)
and all necessary provisions are made in accordance
with the applicable accounting principles. In 2018, no
(additional) pension benefits were granted to former
members of the Board of Management.
Remuneration of the Supervisory Board
The remuneration of the members of the Supervisory
Board amounted to EUR 1,088,375 (2017: EUR 950,500;
2016: EUR 1,037,209). Former members received no
remuneration.
At December 31, 2018 the members of the Supervisory
Board held no stock options, performance shares or
restricted shares.
The individual members of the Supervisory Board
received, by virtue of the positions they held, the
following remuneration (in EUR):

Annual Report 2018

169

Statements 11.1.9

Philips Group
Remuneration of the Supervisory Board in EUR
2016-2018
membership

committees

other compensation 1)

total

2018 2)
J.A. van der Veer

140,000

27,500

12,000

179,500

C. Poon

96,250

36,625

22,000

154,875

H. von Prondzynski

85,000

36,625

14,500

136,125

J.P. Tai

85,000

34,625

22,000

141,625

N. Dhawan

85,000

14,250

24,500

123,750

O. Gadiesh

85,000

14,250

22,000

121,250

D.E.I. Pyott

85,000

25,250

32,000

142,250

P.A. Stoffels

38,333

-

8,333

46,667

A.M. Harrison

31,667

-

10,667

42,333

731,250

189,125

168,000

1,088,375

J.A. van der Veer

135,000

25,000

7,000

167,000

C. Poon

90,000

32,500

17,000

139,500

H. von Prondzynski

80,000

32,500

19,500

132,000

J.P. Tai

80,000

32,500

32,000

144,500

N. Dhawan

80,000

13,000

27,000

120,000

O. Gadiesh

80,000

13,000

19,500

112,500

D.E.I. Pyott

80,000

23,000

32,000

135,000

625,000

171,500

154,000

950,500

2017 2)

2016 2)
J.A. van der Veer

135,000

26,667

7,000

168,667

C. Poon

90,000

32,500

22,000

144,500
39,708

C.J.A. van Lede (Jan.May)

33,333

4,375

2,000

E. Kist (Jan.-May)

40,000

4,167

2,000

46,167

H. von Prondzynski

80,000

25,000

19,500

124,500

J.P. Tai

80,000

34,167

32,000

146,167

N. Dhawan

80,000

13,000

27,000

120,000

O. Gadiesh

80,000

13,000

19,500

112,500

D.E.I. Pyott

80,000

23,000

32,000

135,000

698,333

175,876

163,000

1,037,209

1)

The amounts mentioned under other compensation relate to the fee for intercontinental travel, inter-European travel (effective 2015) and the
entitlement of EUR 2,000 under the Philips product arrangement
2)
As of 2013, part of the remuneration of members of the Supervisory Board living in the Netherlands is subject to VAT. The amounts mentioned
in this table are excluding VAT

Supervisory Board members’ and Board of
Management members’ interests in Philips shares
Members of the Supervisory Board and of the Executive
Committee are prohibited from writing call and put
options or similar derivatives of Philips securities.
Philips Group
Shares held by Board members 1) in number of shares
2018

J. van der Veer

December
31, 2018

18,366

18,366

H. von Prondzynski

3,851

3,937

J.P. Tai

3,844

3,844

F.A. van Houten

233,119

292,302

A. Bhattacharya

53,974

66,794

M.J. van Ginneken

30,246

47,856

1)

170

December 31,
2017

Reference date for board membership is December 31, 2018.

Annual Report 2018

28

Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The estimated fair value of financial instruments has
been determined by the company using available
market information and appropriate valuation methods.
The estimates presented are not necessarily indicative
of the amounts that will ultimately be realized by the
company upon maturity or disposal. The use of different
market assumptions and/or estimation methods may
have a material effect on the estimated fair value
amounts.
The fair value of Philips’ debt is estimated on the basis
of the quoted market prices for certain issues, or on the
basis of discounted cash flow analysis based upon
market rates plus Philips’ spread for the particular
tenors of the borrowing arrangement. Accrued interest
is not included within the carrying amount or estimated
fair value of debt.

Statements 11.1.9

The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their
levels in the fair value hierarchy. It does not include fair value information for financial assets and financial liabilities not
carried at fair value if the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value. As reflected in the table below,
equity instruments carried at FVTOCI were designated as such upon the adoption of IFRS 9. The remaining equity
investment in Signify (current financial assets) was designated as FVTOCI upon initial recognition as of December 31, 2018.
Remaining financial assets are mandatorily classified as FVTPL or FVTOCI.
Philips Group
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities in millions of EUR
2018
carrying
amount

estimated
fair value 1)

Debt instruments

69

69

Equity instruments

20

20

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Financial assets
Carried at fair value:

Other financial assets
Financial assets carried at FVTPL

27

27

116

116

69
20
20

Debt instruments

26

26

Equity instruments

172

172

22

435

435

434

32

32

664

664

36

36

817

817

Current financial assets 2)
Receivables - current
Financial assets carried at FVTOCI
Derivative financial instruments
Financial assets carried at fair value

22

5

22

74

26

-

1

149
32

457

27

181

36
476

85

255

Carried at (amortized) cost:
Cash and cash equivalents

1,688

Loans and receivables:
Current loans receivables
Other non-current loans and receivables
Receivables - current
Receivables - non-current

2
46
4,004
162

Financial assets carried at (amortized) cost

5,902

Total financial assets

6,718

Financial liabilities
Carried at fair value:
Contingent consideration

(409)

(409)

(409)

Financial liabilities carried at FVTP&L

(409)

(409)

(409)

Derivative financial instruments

(290)

(290)

(290)

Financial liabilities carried at fair value

(699)

(699)

(290)

(409)

Carried at (amortized) cost:
Accounts payable
Interest accrual

(2,303)
(36)

Debt (Corporate bonds and finance leases)

(3,621)

Debt (excluding corporate bonds and finance leases)

(1,200)

Financial liabilities carried at (amortized) cost

(7,159)

Total financial liabilities

(7,858)

(3,906)

(3,576)

(330)

1)
For Cash and cash equivalents, Loans and receivables, Accounts payable, interest accrual and Debt (excluding corporate bonds and finance
leases), the carrying amounts approximate fair value because of the short maturity and the nature of these instruments, and therefore fair value
information is not included in the table above.
2)

The majority of the balance reflects the remaining stake in Signify (formerly Philips Lighting), which relates to equity instruments.

Annual Report 2018

171

Statements 11.1.9

Philips Group
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities in millions of EUR
2017
carrying
amount

estimated
fair
value 1)

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

29

368
4

Financial assets
Carried at fair value:
Available-for-sale financial assets
Securities classified as assets held for sale

446

446

49

1,264

1,264

1,264

Fair value through profit and loss

27

27

23

Derivative Financial Instruments

78

78

78

1,815

1,815

Financial assets carried at fair value

1,313

130

372

Carried at (amortized) cost:
Cash and cash equivalents

1,939

Loans and receivables:
Current loans receivable
Other non-current loans and receivables
Receivables - current
Receivables - non-current
Held-to-maturity investments

2
114
3,909
130
1

Financial assets carried at (amortized) costs

6,095

Total financial assets

7,909

Financial liabilities
Carried at fair value:
Contingent consideration

(66)

(66)

Derivative Financial Instruments

(383)

(383)

(383)

(66)

Financial liabilities carried at fair value

(449)

(449)

(383)

(66)

Carried at amortized cost:
Accounts payable
Interest accrual

(2,090)
(38)

Debt (Corporate bond and finance lease)

(3,378)

Debt (other bank loans, overdrafts, forward contacts etc.)

(1,337)

Financial liabilities carried at (amortized) costs

(6,843)

Total financial liabilities

(7,292)

(3,860)

(3,579)

(281)

1)

For Cash and cash equivalents, Loans and receivables, Accounts payable, interest accrual and Debt (excluding corporate bonds and finance
leases), the carrying amounts approximate fair value because of the short maturity and the nature of these instruments, and therefore fair value
information is not included in the table above.

The tables above represents categorization of
measurement of the estimated fair values of financial
assets and liabilities. 2017 comparatives have not been
restated for the adoption of IFRS 9.
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial
instruments include:
Level 1
Instruments included in level 1 are comprised primarily
of listed equity investments classified as financial assets
carried at fair value through profit or loss or carried at
fair value through other comprehensive income. The fair
value of financial instruments traded in active markets is
based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet
date. A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are
readily and regularly available from an exchange,
dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or
regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual
and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s
length basis.

172

Annual Report 2018

Level 2
The fair value of financial instruments that are not
traded in an active market (for example, over-thecounter derivatives or convertible bond instruments) is
determined by using valuation techniques. These
valuation techniques maximize the use of observable
market data where it is available and rely as little as
possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant
inputs required to fair value an instrument are based on
observable market data, the instrument is included in
level 2. The fair value of derivatives is calculated as the
present value of the estimated future cash flows based
on observable interest yield curves, basis spread and
foreign exchange rates. The valuation of convertible
bond instruments uses observable market quoted data
for the options and present value calculations using
observable yield curves for the fair value of the bonds.
Level 3
If one or more of the significant inputs are not based on
observable market data, such as third-party pricing
information without adjustments, the instrument is
included in level 3.

Statements 11.1.9

Philips recognizes transfers between levels of the fair
value hierarchy at the end of the reporting period during
which the change has occurred.
The retained investment in the combined businesses of
Lumileds and Automotive of EUR 112 million (December
31, 2017: EUR 243 million) is classified as a financial
asset recognized at fair value through OCI, based on a
valuation model with inputs, including earnings,
multiples and discount rates, which are marketcorroborated to the extent possible, and hence
classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. The value
decrease in 2018 was mainly attributable to a lower
earnings assumption.

rates of 100 basis points would increase the fair value
by approximately 3%.
The table below shows the reconciliation from the
beginning balance to the end balance for Level 3 fair
value measurements.
Philips Group
Reconciliation of the fair value hierarchy in millions of EUR
2018
Financial assets

Financial liabilities

372

66

Balance as of
December 31, 2017
IFRS 9
adjustment 1)
Balance at
January 1, 2018

47
420

A sensitivity analysis of the investment in the combined
Lumileds and Automotive businesses at December 31,
2018 shows that if the earnings assumption were to
increase instantaneously by 10%, with all other variables
(including foreign exchange rates) held constant, the fair
value of the investment would increase by
approximately 60%. Similarly, a decrease of 10% in the
earnings assumption would reduce the fair value by
approximately 47%. If the valuation multiples were to
increase instantaneously by 10% from the assumption
at December 31, 2018, with all other variables (including
foreign exchange rates) held constant, the fair value of
the investment would increase by approximately 34%,
while a decrease of 10% in valuation multiples would
reduce the fair value by approximately 30%.

Assumed in a
business
combination

Receivables held
to collect and sell

(15)

As part of the EPD acquisition (refer to Acquisitions and
Divestments, starting on page 133) Philips may be
required to pay additional consideration to former
shareholders if specified future events occur or
conditions are met, such as the achievement of certain
regulatory milestones or the achievement of certain
commercial milestones. The fair value of this contingent
consideration liability was determined using a
probability-weighted approach to estimate the
achievement of future regulatory and commercial
milestones and discount rates ranging from 3 to 4
percent. The discount rates used reflect the inherent risk
related to achieving the respective milestones. The fair
value measurements is based on management’s
estimates and assumptions and hence classified as
Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.

Balance at
December 31, 2018

255

A sensitivity analysis of the EPD contingent
consideration liability at December 31, 2018 shows that
if the probabilities of success for every milestone
increased by 10 percentage points, with all other
variables (including foreign exchange rates) held
constant, the fair value of the liability would increase by
approximately 3%. Similarly, a decrease in the
probabilities of success for every milestone by 10
percentage points would reduce the fair value by
approximately 4%. If the discount rates were to increase
instantaneously by 100 basis points from the
assumption at December 31, 2018, with all other
variables (including foreign exchange rates) held
constant, the fair value of the liability would decrease
by approximately 3%, while a decrease in the discount

Purchase
Sales

66

370
30
(35)

Utilizations

(48)

Recognized in
profit and loss:
- other business
income
- financial income
and expenses
Recognized in
other
comprehensive
income 2)

5
-

12

(145)

5

409

1)

IFRS 9 adjustments relates to Receivables-current carried at
FVTOCI. For further information refer to Significant accounting
policies note.
2)

Includes translation differences

The section below elaborates on transactions in
derivatives. Transactions in derivatives are subject to
master netting and set-off agreements. In the case of
certain termination events, under the terms of the
master agreement, Philips can terminate the
outstanding transactions and aggregate their positive
and negative values to arrive at a single net termination
sum (or close-out amount). This contractual right is
subject to the following:
• The right may be limited by local law if the
counterparty is subject to bankruptcy proceedings;
• The right applies on a bilateral basis.

Annual Report 2018

173

Statements 11.1.9

Philips Group
Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting
arrangements or similar agreements in millions of EUR
2017 - 2018
2017

2018

78

36

78

36

(38)

(25)

39

12

Derivatives
Gross amounts of recognized financial
assets
Gross amounts of recognized financial
liabilities offset in the balance sheet
Net amounts of financial assets presented
in the balance sheet
Related amounts not offset in the balance
sheet
Financial instruments
Cash collateral received
Net amount

Philips Group
Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting
arrangements or similar agreements in millions of EUR
2017 - 2018
2017

2018

(383)

(290)

(383)

(290)

Derivatives
Gross amounts of recognized financial
liabilities
Gross amounts of recognized financial
assets offset in the balance sheet
Net amounts of financial liabilities
presented in the balance sheet
Related amounts not offset in the balance
sheet
Financial instruments

38

25

(345)

(265)

Cash collateral received
Net amount
29

Details of treasury / other financial risks
Philips is exposed to several types of financial risks. This
note further analyzes financial risks. Philips does not
purchase or hold derivative financial instruments for
speculative purposes. Information regarding financial
instruments is included in Fair value of financial assets
and liabilities, starting on page 170.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that an entity will encounter
difficulty in meeting obligations associated with
financial liabilities.
Liquidity risk for the group is monitored through the
Treasury liquidity committee, which tracks the
development of the actual cash flow position for the
group and uses input from a number of sources in order
to forecast the overall liquidity position on both a short
and longer term basis. Philips invests surplus cash in
money market deposits with appropriate maturities to
ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet liabilities
when due and in money market funds.
The rating of the company’s debt by major rating
agencies may improve or deteriorate. As a result,
Philips’ future borrowing capacity may be influenced
and its financing costs may fluctuate. Philips has various
sources to mitigate the liquidity risk for the group. At

174

Annual Report 2018

December 31, 2018, Philips had EUR 1,688 million in
cash and cash equivalents (2017: EUR 1,939 million),
within which short-term deposits of EUR 1,174 million
(2017: EUR 1,302 million). Cash and cash equivalents
include all cash balances, money market funds and
short-term highly liquid investments with an original
maturity of three months or less that are readily
convertible into known amounts of cash. Philips pools
cash from subsidiaries to the extent legally and
economically feasible; cash not pooled remains
available for the company’s operational or investment
needs.
Philips faces cross-border foreign exchange controls
and/or other legal restrictions in a few countries that
could limit its ability to make these balances available
on short notice for general use by the group.
Furthermore, Royal Philips has a USD 2.5 billion
Commercial Paper Programme and a EUR 1 billion
committed revolving credit facility that can be used for
general group purposes, such as a backstop for its
Commercial Paper Programme. As of December 31,
2018, Royal Philips did not have any amounts
outstanding under any of these facilities. A description
of Philips’ credit facilities can be found in Debt, starting
on page 151.
In addition to cash and cash equivalents, Philips also
held EUR 42 million of level 1 equity investments in
other non-current financial assets (fair value at
December 31, 2018). Furthermore, Philips is also a
shareholder in Signify (EUR 434 million at year-end
2018) which is publicly listed and classified as other
current financial asset.
The table below presents a summary of the Group’s
fixed contractual cash obligations and commitments at
December 31, 2018. These amounts are an estimate of
future payments which could change as a result of
various factors such as a change in interest rates,
contractual provisions, as well as changes in our
business strategy and needs. Therefore, the actual
payments made in future periods may vary from those
presented in the following table:

Statements 11.1.9

Philips Group
Contractual cash obligation 1) 2) in millions of EUR
2018

arrangements for 2018 totaled EUR 31 million (2017: EUR
31 million).

payments due by period

Long-term
debt 3)

total

less
than 1
year

1-3
years

3-5
years

after 5
years

4,358

1,136

194

501

2,527

Finance lease
obligations

357

100

152

53

52

Short-term
debt

164

164

Operating
leases
obligations
Derivative
liabilities

756

176

227

148

204

296

179

2

114

1,632

108

207

200

1,117

666

233

352

52

30

Trade and
other payables

2,303

2,303

Contractual
cash
obligations

10,532

4,399

Interest on debt
Purchase
obligations 4)

Philips Group
Operating lease - minimum payments under sale-and-leaseback
arrangements in millions of EUR
2018
2019

29

2020

26

2021

23

2022

21

2023

20

Thereafter

1,134

1,069

3,929

3)

Long-term debt includes short-term portion of long-term debt
and excludes finance lease obligations
4)
Purchase obligations are agreements to purchase goods or
services that are enforceable and legally binding for the Group.
They specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum
quantities to be purchased, fixed, minimum or variable price
provisions and the approximate timing of the transaction. They do
not include open purchase orders or other commitments which do
not specify all significant terms.
2)
This table excludes post-employment benefit plan contribution
commitments and income tax liabilities in respect of tax risks
because it is not possible to make a reasonably reliable estimate of
the actual period of cash settlement
1)

The remaining minimum payment under sales-andleaseback arrangements included in operating lease
obligations above are as follows:

Amounts in this table are undiscounted

Philips has contracts with investment funds where it
committed itself to make, under certain conditions,
capital contributions to these funds of an aggregated
remaining amount of EUR 86 million (2017: EUR 83
million). As at December 31, 2018 capital contributions
already made to these investment funds are recorded
as non-current financial assets.
In January 2018, it was announced that the North
American headquarters will move from Andover to
Cambridge. Philips has entered into a new lease
commitment commencing in 2020 with a term of 15
years and resulting in an off-balance sheet commitment
of EUR 218 million.
Certain Philips suppliers factor their trade receivables
from Philips with third parties through supplier finance
arrangements. At December 31, 2018 approximately
EUR 275 million of the Philips accounts payable were
known to have been sold onward under such
arrangements whereby Philips confirms invoices. Philips
continues to recognize these liabilities as trade
payables and will settle the liabilities in line with the
original payment terms of the related invoices.
The operating lease obligations are mainly related to
the rental of buildings. A number of these leases
originate from sale-and-leaseback arrangements.
Operating lease payments under sale-and-leaseback

106

Currency risk
Currency risk is the risk that reported financial
performance or the fair value or future cash flows of a
financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in
foreign exchange rates. Philips operates in many
countries and currencies and therefore currency
fluctuations may impact Philips’ financial results. Philips
is exposed to currency risk in the following areas:
• Transaction exposures, related to anticipated sales
and purchases and on-balance-sheet receivables/
payables resulting from such transactions
• Translation exposure of foreign-currency
intercompany and external debt and deposits
• Translation exposure of net income in foreign
entities
• Translation exposure of foreign-currencydenominated equity invested in consolidated
companies
• Translation exposure to equity interests in nonfunctional-currency investments in associates and
other non-current financial assets.
It is Philips’ policy to reduce the potential year-on-year
volatility caused by foreign-currency movements on its
net earnings by hedging the anticipated net exposure of
foreign currencies resulting from foreign-currency sales
and purchases. In general, net anticipated exposures for
the Group are hedged during a period of 15 months in
layers of 20% up to a maximum hedge of 80%, using
forwards and currency options. Philips’ policy requires
significant committed foreign currency exposures to be
fully hedged, generally using forwards. However, not
every foreign currency can or shall be hedged as there
may be regulatory barriers or prohibitive hedging cost
preventing Philips from effectively and/or efficiently
hedging its currency exposures. As a result, hedging
activities cannot and will not eliminate all currency risks
for anticipated and committed transaction exposures.
The following table outlines the estimated nominal
value in millions of EUR for committed and anticipated
transaction exposure and related hedges for Philips’
most significant currency exposures consolidated as of
December 31, 2018:

Annual Report 2018

175

Statements 11.1.9

Philips Group
Estimated transaction exposure and related hedges in millions of
EUR
2018
Sales/
Receivables
Purchases/Payable
exposure hedges

exposure

hedges

Balance as of
December 31, 2018
Exposure currency
USD

1,672

(1,178)

(659)

571

JPY

683

(361)

(9)

9

CAD

263

(137)

-

-

GBP

222

(102)

(14)

6

CNY

276

(220)

(120)

113

AUD

199

(109)

CHF

107

(56)

PLN

113

(63)

SEK

46

(23)

(1)

1

CZK

38

(19)

RUB

97

(87)

(1)

1

215

(207)

(156)

109

Total 2018

3,930

(2,562)

(960)

809

Total 2017

3,395

(2,189)

(867)

760

Others

Philips uses foreign exchange spot and forward
contracts, as well as zero cost collars in hedging the
exposure. The derivatives related to transactions are, for
hedge accounting purposes, split into hedges of onbalance-sheet accounts receivable/payable and
forecasted sales and purchases. Changes in the value of
on-balance-sheet foreign-currency accounts
receivable/payable, as well as the changes in the fair
value of the hedges related to these exposures, are
reported in the income statement under costs of sales.
Hedges related to forecasted transactions, where hedge
accounting is applied, are accounted for as cash flow
hedges. The results from such hedges are deferred in
other comprehensive income within equity to the extent
that the hedge is effective. As of December 31, 2018, a
loss of EUR 10 million was deferred in equity as a result
of these hedges (2017: EUR 23 million gain). The result
deferred in equity will be released to earnings mostly
during 2019 at the time when the related hedged
transactions affect the income statement. During 2018, a
net gain of EUR 0.04 million (2017: EUR 0.1 million net
gain) was recorded in the consolidated statement of
income as a result of ineffectiveness on certain
anticipated cash flow hedges. Ineffectiveness arises
when anticipated exposures are no longer expected to
be highly probable. Philips has completed updates to
its internal documentation and monitoring processes
and concluded that all existing hedge relationships that
are currently designated as effective hedging
relationships will continue to qualify for hedge
accounting under IFRS 9. As at December 31, 2018, a
loss of EUR 6 million was included in the cash flow
hedges reserve related to changes in fair value of
foreign exchange forward contracts attributable to
forward points and changes in the time value of option
contracts, which under IFRS 9 are deferred in the cash
flow hedges reserve within equity.

176

Annual Report 2018

The total net fair value of hedges related to transaction
exposure as of December 31, 2018, was an unrealized
liability of EUR 7 million. An instantaneous 10% increase
in the value of the EUR against all currencies would lead
to an increase of EUR 113 million in the value of the
derivatives; including a EUR 75 million increase related
to foreign exchange transactions of the USD against the
EUR, a EUR 15 million increase related to foreign
exchange transactions of the JPY against the EUR, a
EUR 7 million increase related to foreign exchange
transactions of the GBP against the EUR, a EUR 6
million increase related to foreign exchange
transactions of the RUB against the EUR, a EUR 5
million increase related to foreign exchange
transactions of the PLN against the EUR and a EUR 5
million increase related to foreign exchange
transactions of the CHF against the EUR.
The EUR 113 million increase includes a gain of EUR 14
million that would impact the income statement, which
would largely offset the opposite revaluation effect on
the underlying accounts receivable and payable, and
the remaining gain of EUR 99 million would be
recognized in equity to the extent that the cash flow
hedges were effective.
The total net fair value of hedges related to transaction
exposure as of December 31, 2017, was an unrealized
asset of EUR 21 million. An instantaneous 10% increase
in the value of the EUR against all currencies would lead
to an increase of EUR 102 million in the value of the
derivatives; including a EUR 53 million increase related
to foreign exchange transactions of the USD against the
EUR, a EUR 17 million increase related to foreign
exchange transactions of the JPY against the EUR, a
EUR 10 million increase related to foreign exchange
transactions of the GBP against the EUR, a EUR 6
million increase related to foreign exchange
transactions of the PLN against the EUR and a EUR 5
million increase related to foreign exchange
transactions of the CHF against the EUR.
Foreign exchange exposure also arises as a result of
inter-company loans and deposits. Where the company
enters into such arrangements, the financing is
generally provided in the functional currency of the
subsidiary entity. The currency of the company’s
external funding and liquid assets is matched with the
required financing of subsidiaries, either directly
through external foreign currency loans and deposits, or
synthetically by using foreign exchange derivatives,
including cross currency interest rate swaps and foreign
exchange forward contracts. In certain cases where
group companies may also have external foreign
currency debt or liquid assets, these exposures are also
hedged through the use of foreign exchange
derivatives. Changes in the fair value of hedges related
to this exposure are recognized within financial income
and expenses in the statements of income. When such
loans would be considered part of the net investment in
the subsidiary, net investment hedging would be
applied.

Statements 11.1.9

Translation exposure of foreign-currency equity
invested in consolidated entities may be hedged. If a
hedge is entered into, it is accounted for as a net
investment hedge. Net current-period change, before
tax, of the currency translation reserve of EUR 383
million relates mainly to the positive impact of the
weaker EUR against the foreign currencies of countries
in which Philips’ operations are located. The change in
currency translation reserve was mostly related to the
development of the USD.
As of December 31, 2018, cross-currency interest rate
swaps for a nominal value of USD 1,100 million (liability
at fair value: EUR 246 million) and external bond
funding for a nominal value of USD 1,473 million (liability
at book value: EUR 1,290 million) were designated as
net investment hedges of our financing investments in
foreign operations for an equal amount. During 2018 a
total loss of EUR 0.2 million was recognized in the
income statement as ineffectiveness on net investment
hedges, arising from counterparty and own credit risk.
The total net fair value of financing derivatives as of
December 31, 2018, was a liability of EUR 246 million.
An instantaneous 10% increase in the value of the EUR
against all currencies would lead to an increase of EUR
63 million in the value of the derivatives, including a
EUR 79 million increase related to the USD.
As of December 31, 2017, cross-currency interest rate
swaps with a fair value liability of EUR 330 million and
external bond funding for a nominal value of USD 2,535
million were designated as net investment hedges of
our financing investments in foreign operations. During
2017 a total gain of EUR 1.4 million was recognized in
the income statement as ineffectiveness on net
investment hedges.
The total net fair value of financing derivatives as of
December 31, 2017, was a liability of EUR 326 million. An
instantaneous 10% increase in the value of the EUR
against all currencies would lead to an increase of EUR
213 million in the value of the derivatives, including a
EUR 208 million increase related to the USD.
Philips does not currently hedge the foreign exchange
exposure arising from equity interests in nonfunctional-currency investments in associates and other
non-current financial assets.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future
cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate
because of changes in market interest rates. Philips had,
at year-end, outstanding debt of EUR 4,821 million
(2017: EUR 4,715 million), which constitutes an inherent
interest rate risk with potential negative impact on
financial results. At year-end, Philips held EUR 1,688
million in cash and cash equivalents (2017: EUR 1,939
million), and had total long-term debt of EUR 3,427
million (2017: EUR 4,044 million) and total short-term
debt of EUR 1,394 million (2017: EUR 672 million). At
December 31, 2018, Philips had a ratio of fixed-rate

long-term debt to total outstanding debt of
approximately 67%, compared to 72% one year earlier.
A sensitivity analysis conducted shows that if long-term
interest rates were to decrease instantaneously by 1%
from their level of December 31, 2018, with all other
variables (including foreign exchange rates) held
constant, the fair value of the fixed-rate long-term debt
(excluding forward contracts) would increase by
approximately EUR 275 million. If there was an increase
of 1% in long-term interest rates, this would reduce the
market value of the fixed-rate long-term debt
(excluding forward contracts) by approximately EUR 276
million.
If interest rates were to increase instantaneously by 1%
from their level of December 31, 2018, with all other
variables held constant, the annualized net interest
expense would decrease by approximately EUR 9
million. This impact was based on the outstanding net
cash position (after excluding fixed-rate debt) at
December 31, 2018.
A sensitivity analysis conducted shows that if long-term
interest rates were to decrease instantaneously by 1%
from their level of December 31, 2017, with all other
variables (including foreign exchange rates) held
constant, the fair value of the long-term debt would
increase by approximately EUR 271 million. If there was
an increase of 1% in long-term interest rates, this would
reduce the market value of the long-term debt by
approximately EUR 271 million.
If interest rates were to increase instantaneously by 1%
from their level of December 31, 2017, with all other
variables held constant, the annualized net interest
expense would decrease by approximately EUR 12
million. This impact was based on the outstanding net
cash position (after excluding fixed-rate debt) at
December 31, 2017.
Equity price risk
Equity price risk is the risk that the fair value or future
cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate
because of changes in equity prices.
Philips is a shareholder in some publicly listed
companies, including Signify and Corindus Vascular
Robotics. As a result, Philips is exposed to potential
financial loss through movements in their share prices.
The aggregate equity price exposure in such financial
assets amounted to approximately EUR 476 million at
year-end 2018 (2017: EUR 1,313 million). Philips does not
hold derivatives in the above-mentioned listed
companies. Philips also has shareholdings in several
privately-owned companies amounting to EUR 150
million, mainly consisting of the combined businesses in
Lumileds and Automotive. As a result, Philips is exposed
to potential value adjustments.
Commodity price risk
Commodity price risk is the risk that the fair value or
future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate
because of changes in commodity prices.
Annual Report 2018

177

Statements 11.1.9

Philips is a purchaser of certain base metals, precious
metals and energy. Philips may hedge certain
commodity price risks using derivative instruments to
minimize significant, unanticipated earnings fluctuations
caused by commodity price volatility. The commodity
price derivatives that Philips may enter into are
accounted for as cash flow hedges to offset forecasted
purchases. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017,
respectively, Philips did not have any material
outstanding commodity derivatives.
Credit risk
Credit risk represents the loss that would be recognized
at the reporting date, if counterparties failed completely
to perform their payment obligations as contracted.
Credit risk is present within Philips trade receivables and
contract assets. To have better insights into the credit
exposures, Philips performs ongoing evaluations of the
financial and non-financial condition of its customers
and adjusts credit limits when appropriate. In instances
where the creditworthiness of a customer is determined
not to be sufficient to grant the credit limit required,
there are a number of mitigation tools that can be
utilized to close the gap, including reducing payment
terms, cash on delivery, pre-payments and pledges on
assets.
Philips invests available cash and cash equivalents with
various financial institutions and is exposed to credit risk
with these counterparties. Philips is also exposed to
credit risks in the event of non-performance by financial
institutions with respect to financial derivative
instruments. Philips actively manages concentration risk
and on a daily basis measures the potential loss under
certain stress scenarios, should a financial institution
default. These worst-case scenario losses are
monitored and limited by the company.
The company does not enter into any financial
derivative instruments to protect against default by
financial institutions. However, where possible the
company requires all financial institutions with which it
deals in derivative transactions to complete legally
enforceable netting agreements under an International
Swap Dealers Association master agreement or
otherwise prior to trading, and whenever possible, to
have a strong credit rating from Fitch and Standard &
Poor’s Investor Services. Philips also regularly monitors
the development of the credit risk of its financial
counterparties. Wherever possible, cash is invested and
financial transactions are concluded with financial
institutions with strong credit ratings or with
governments or government-backed institutions.
The table below shows the number of financial
institutions with credit rating A- and above with which
Philips has cash at hand and short-term deposits above
EUR 10 million as of December 31, 2018.

178

Annual Report 2018

Philips Group
Credit risk with number of counterparties for deposits above EUR 10
million
2018
10-100
million

100-500
million

AA- rated bank
counterparties

1

1

A+ rated bank
counterparties

2

2

A rated bank
counterparties

500 million
and above
1

2

A- rated bank
counterparties

1
3

6

1

For an overview of the overall maximum credit exposure
related to debt instruments, derivatives and loans and
receivables, please refer to Fair value of financial assets
and liabilities, starting on page 170.
Country risk
Country risk is the risk that political, legal, or economic
developments in a single country could adversely
impact our performance. The country risk per country is
defined as the sum of the equity of all subsidiaries and
associated companies in country cross-border
transactions, such as intercompany loans, accounts
receivable from third parties and intercompany
accounts receivable. The country risk is monitored on a
regular basis.
As of December 31, 2018, the company had country risk
exposure of EUR 10.9 billion in the United States, EUR
1.9 billion in the Netherlands and EUR 1.9 billion in
China (including Hong Kong). Other countries higher
than EUR 500 million are Japan (EUR 714 million), the
United Kingdom (EUR 643 million) and Germany (EUR
551 million). India exceeded EUR 300 million but was
less than EUR 500 million. The degree of risk of a
country is taken into account when new investments are
considered. The company does not, however, use
financial derivative instruments to hedge country risk.
The impact of hyperinflation is also routinely assessed
and was not material for the periods presented.
Other insurable risks
Philips is covered for a broad range of losses by global
insurance policies in the areas of property damage/
business interruption, general and product liability,
transport, directors’ and officers’ liability, employment
practice liability, crime and cyber security. The
counterparty risk related to the insurance companies
participating in the above-mentioned global insurance
policies is actively managed. As a rule, Philips only
selects insurance companies with an S&P credit rating
of at least A-. Throughout the year the counterparty risk
is monitored on a regular basis.
To lower exposures and to avoid potential losses,
Philips has a global Risk Engineering program in place.
The main focus of this program is on property damage
and business interruption risks including company
interdependencies. Regular on-site assessments take
place at Philips locations and business-critical suppliers

Statements 11.1.9

by risk engineers of the insurer in order to provide an
accurate assessment of the potential loss and its
impact. The results of these assessments are shared
across the company’s stakeholders. On-site
assessments are carried out against the predefined Risk
Engineering standards, which are agreed between
Philips and the insurers. Recommendations are made in
a Risk Improvement report and are monitored centrally.
This is the basis for decision-making by the local
management of the business as to which
recommendations will be implemented.
For all policies, deductibles are in place, which vary
from EUR 0.25 million to EUR 5 million per occurrence
and this variance is designed to differentiate between
the existing risk categories within Philips. Above a first
layer of working deductibles, Philips operates its own
re-insurance captive, which during 2018 retained EUR 5
million per claim and EUR 10 million in the annual
aggregate for general, product and professional liability
claims.
New contracts were signed effective December 31, 2018,
for the coming year, whereby the re-insurance captive
retentions remained unchanged.

30

Subsequent events
New share buyback program
On January 29, 2019, Philips announced a new share
buyback program for an amount of up to EUR 1.5 billion.
At the current share price, the program represents a
total of approximately 46 million shares. Philips expects
to start the program in the first quarter of 2019 and to
complete it within two years. As the program will be
initiated for capital reduction purposes, Philips intends
to cancel all of the shares acquired under the program.
The program will be executed by an intermediary to
allow for purchases in the open market during both
open and closed periods, in accordance with the EU
Market Abuse Regulation.
Claim LG Electronics, Inc (LGE)
In connection with the CRT matter as referenced in
Contingent assets and liabilities, starting on page 162,
the Company was served with a claim filed by LGE in
the Seoul Central District Court on January 29, 2019.
LGE claims restitution of EUR 64.6 million, representing
a portion of the fine that LGE paid to the European
Commission relating to the joint venture LG.Philips
Displays for which LGE and the Company were jointly
and severally liable. LGE alleges that based on the
manner in which the fine was calculated, the Company
should have paid proportionately more than it currently
has.

Annual Report 2018

179

Statements 11.2

11.2 Company financial statements
Introduction
Statutory financial statements
The sections Group financial statements and Company
financial statements contain the statutory financial
statements of Koninklijke Philips N.V.
A description of the company’s activities and group
structure is included in the Group financial statements.
Accounting policies applied
The financial statements of the Company included in
this section are prepared in accordance with Part 9 of
Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Section 2:362 (8) of the
Dutch Civil Code, allows companies that apply IFRS as
endorsed by the European Union in their consolidated
financial statements to use the same measurement
principles in their Company financial statements. The
Company has prepared these Company financial
statements using this provision.
The accounting policies are described in Significant
accounting policies, starting on page 112 of the Group
financial Statements and are deemed incorporated and
repeated herein by reference.
The investments in group companies and associates are
presented as financial fixed assets in the balance sheet
using the equity method, with the exception of the
retained interest in Signify (formerly Philips Lighting) for
which the accounting treatment is explained below.
Goodwill paid upon acquisition of investments in group
companies or associates is included in the net equity
value of the investment and is not shown separately on
the face of the balance sheet. Loans provided to group
companies are stated at amortized cost, less
impairment. The Company makes use of the option to
eliminate intercompany expected credit losses against
the book value of loans and receivables to group
companies, instead of elimination against the
investments in group companies.
Investments in associates represent minority
investments in various companies. Until December 31,
2018, Signify was the most notable investment. The
valuation basis for Signify was the lower of the carrying
value as per November 28, 2017 based on the closing
share price of EUR 32.975 (the date of initial recognition

180

Annual Report 2018

of an investment in associate in the Company balance
sheets) or the value based on the stock price, less cost
to sell, at reporting date. As per December 31, 2018,
Philips is no longer able to exercise significant influence
with respect to Signify. Because of that, the remaining
interest in Signify was reclassified to Other current
financial assets, with fair value changes recognized
through OCI.
New standards and interpretations
The Company applies, for the first time, IFRS 15
Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 9
Financial instruments. The impact of adoption of IFRS 9
on the Company is disclosed below. The adoption of
IFRS 15, and any other amendments and interpretations
applied for the first time in 2018, did not have a material
impact on the Company financial statements.
As a result of the adoption of IFRS 9, certain financial
assets amounting to EUR 71 million were reclassified
from measurement at fair value through other
comprehensive income (FVTOCI) to fair value through
profit or loss (FVTPL). The related fair value gains of
EUR 4 million were transferred from the fair value
through OCI reserve to retained earnings as per January
1, 2018. The adoption of IFRS 9 did not result in any
further material impact on the Company balance sheets
before appropriation of results, Company Statements of
income or Company Statement of changes in equity.

Presentation of Company financial
statements
The structure of the Company balance sheets and
Company statements of income are aligned as much as
possible with the Consolidated statements in order to
achieve optimal transparency between the Group
financial statements and the Company financial
statements. Consequently, the presentation of the
Company statements deviates from Dutch regulations.
The Company balance sheet has been prepared before
the appropriation of result.
Additional information
For “Additional information” within the meaning of
Section 2:392 of the Dutch Civil Code, please refer to
Independent auditor’s report, starting on page 189 and
Appropriation of profits and profit distributions, starting
on page 189

Statements 11.2.1

11.2.1 Statements of income
Koninklijke Philips N.V.
Statements of income in millions of EUR
For the year ended December 31
2017
A

2018

Sales.

363

401

Cost of sales

(35)

(19)

Gross margin

328

382

(11)

(49)
(32)

Selling expenses
General and administrative expenses

(27)

B

Other business income (expense).

489

41

C

Income from operations.

780

343

D

Financial income.

642

329

D

Financial expenses.

(444)

(228)

Income before taxes

978

443

Income tax expense.

(73)

(2)

Income after tax

906

441

Results relating to investments in associates.

(109)

(195)

E
H

Net income (loss) from group companies
Net income

860

844

1,657

1,090

Amounts may not add up due to rounding.

Annual Report 2018

181

Statements 11.2.2

11.2.2 Balance sheets before appropriation of results
Koninklijke Philips N.V.
Balance sheets in millions of EUR
As of December 31
2017

2018

Assets
Non-current assets:
Property, plant and equipment
G

Intangible assets.

H

Financial fixed assets.
Non-current receivables
Deferred tax assets

I

Other non-current financial assets.
Total non-current assets

1

1

56

57

19,246

20,164

43

72

457

394

171

122

19,974

20,810

Current assets:
I

Current financial assets.

J

Receivables.

K

L

Cash and cash equivalents.

1

436

11,436

4,051

1,109

1,131

Total current assets

12,546

5,618

Total assets

32,521

26,428

Equity.
Common shares
Capital in excess of par value
Revaluation reserves

188

185

3,311

3,487

(7)

(191)

Legal reserves

1,095

1,373

Other reserves

5,755

6,143

Net income

1,657

1,090

11,999

12,088

3,843

3,273

Total equity
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities:
M

Long-term debt.
Long-term provisions

7

2

Deferred tax liabilities

11

8

Other non-current liabilities
Total non-current liabilities

356

206

4,217

3,490

16,003

10,573

Current liabilities:
M

Short-term debt.

N

Other current liabilities.

303

278

Total current liabilities

16,305

10,851

Total liabilities and shareholders' equity

32,521

26,428

Amounts may not add up due to rounding.

182

Annual Report 2018

Statements 11.2.3

11.2.3 Statement of changes in equity

188

3,311

IFRS 9 and 15 adjustment 1)
Balance as of January 1, 2018

(30)

23

703

392

(4)
188

3,311

(34)

other reserves
6,237

(481)

1,657

11,999

(481)

1,657

11,970

(25)
23

703

392

Appropriation of prior year result

6,211

(29)

1,657

(1,657)

Net income

1,090

Net current period change

(147)

Income tax on net current period
change
Reclassification into income
Dividend distributed
Cancellation of treasury shares

N
et
in
co
m
e
Sh
ar
eh
ol
de
rs
'e
qu
ity

ea
rn
in
gs
sh
ar
es
Tr
ea
su
ry

tr
an
sl
at
io
n

di
ffe
re
nc
es

legal reserves

Re
ta
in
ed

Cu
rr
en
cy

Affi
lia
te
d

he
dg
es

revaluation reserves
Balance as of December 31,
2017

co
m
pa
ni
es

O
CI
flo
w
Ca
sh

Fa
ir
va
lu
e

ex
ce
ss

Ca
pi
ta
li
n

sh
ar
es
Co
m
m
on

th
ro
ug
h

of
pa
rv
al
ue

Koninklijke Philips N.V.
Statement of changes in equity in millions of EUR
For the year ended December 31

2

(13)

(69)

382

37

191

11

(29)

(18)

(31)

(6)

(37)

336

(738)

(5)

(779)

Purchase of treasury shares
Re-issuance of treasury shares

1,090

(276)

(400)
783

-

(514)

(514)

(4)

341

61

Forward contracts

124

(443)

(319)

Share call option

34

(85)

(51)

Share-based compensation
plans

107

107

Income tax on share-based
compensation plans

11

11

Balance as of December 31,
2018
1)

185

3,487

(181)

(10)

634

739

6,542

(399)

1,090

12,088

Impact of IFRS 9 and 15 adoption. Reference is made to the Significant accounting policies, starting on page 112

Amounts may not add up due to rounding.

Annual Report 2018

183

Statements 11.2.4

11.2.4 Notes

A

B

exchange differences compared to EUR 12 million in
2018.

Notes to the Company financial statements
Sales
Sales relate to external sales and mainly comprise
license income from intellectual property rights owned
by the Company.

Financial expense relates to interest paid on external
financing transactions of EUR 137 million (2017: EUR 160
million) and intercompany financing transactions of
EUR 6 million (2017: EUR 6 million). Financial expense in
2017 includes EUR 258 million negative exchange
differences compared to EUR 12 million in 2018.

Other business income
Koninklijke Philips N.V.
Other Business Income in millions of EUR
2017 - 2018

E
2017

2018

Other business income (expense) from
deconsolidation of Philips Lighting

538

(22)

Other business income (expense) from sale
of Lumileds

(96)

15

48

48

489

41

Other
Net income

The income tax expense of EUR 2 million represents the
consolidated amount of current and deferred tax
expense for the members of the fiscal unity. The
effective tax rate in 2018 deviates compared to the
Dutch statutory tax rate of 25%, mainly due to results
relating to participations and a one-off benefit from a
release of tax provisions.

Other business income includes subsequent results
related to the deconsolidation of Philips Lighting (now
Signify) and the sale of the combined Lumileds and
Automotive businesses in June 2017 and November
2017, respectively.
Other includes income and expense from transactions
with group companies regarding overhead services and
brand license agreements.
C

At December 31, 2018, net operating loss and tax credit
carry forwards for which no deferred tax assets have
been recognized in the balance sheet amount to EUR
20 million.
F

Sales and costs by nature
Koninklijke Philips N.V.
Sales and costs by nature in millions of EUR
2017 - 2018
Sales
Costs of materials used

2017

2018

363

401

(5)

(1)

Employee benefit expenses

(19)

(20)

Depreciation and amortization

(30)

(12)

(4)

(4)

Other operational costs

(15)

(62)

Other business income (expenses)

489

41

Income from operations

780

343

Advertising and promotion

Depreciation and amortization includes EUR 12 million
impairment charges related to intangible assets in 2017.
Other operational costs in 2018 include EUR 30 million
charges related to the European Commission's
investigation into retail pricing.

Income tax
Koninklijke Philips N.V. is head of the fiscal unity that
exists for Dutch corporate income tax purposes.

Employees
The number of persons having a contract with the
Company at the year-end 2018 was 9 (2017: 8):
• 3 of them had a services contract;
• 6 of them had a contract of employment.
They were all posted in the Netherlands.
For the remuneration of past and present members of
both the Board of Management and the Supervisory
Board, please refer to Information on remuneration,
starting on page 166, which is deemed incorporated
and repeated herein by reference.

G

Intangible assets
Intangible assets include mainly licenses and patents.
The changes during 2018 are as follows;
Koninklijke Philips N.V.
Intangible assets in millions of EUR
2018

For a summary of the audit fees related to the Philips
Group, please refer to the Group Financial statements
Income from operations, starting on page 135, which is
deemed incorporated and repeated herein by
reference.

Balance as of January 1, 2018
Cost

106

Amortization/ impairments

(50)

Book value
Additions

D

184

Financial income and expense
Financial income mainly consists of income from
intercompany financing transactions. Interest received
on these transactions EUR 273 million (2017: EUR 355
million) decreased due to the change in capitalization of
the US as described in note Financial fixed assets,
starting on page 184. Interest received from third parties
was EUR 6 million (2017: EUR 9 million). Financial
income in 2017 includes EUR 259 million positive

Annual Report 2018

56

Changes in book value:
Amortization
Total changes

14
(12)
2

Balance as of December 31,
2018
Cost
Amortization/ impairments
Book Value
H

Financial fixed assets
The changes during 2018 were as follows:

117
(60)
57

Statements 11.2.4

Koninklijke Philips N.V.
Financial fixed assets in millions of EUR
2018

Investments in group companies

Investments in associates

Loans

Total

12,142

1,308

5,796

19,246

5,796

19,197

Balance as of December 31, 2017
IFRS 15 adjustment
Balance as of January 1, 2018

(57)

7

12,085

1,315

(50)

Changes:
Reclassification
Acquisitions/additions
Sales/redemptions
Net income from affiliated companies
Dividends received

(434)
48

149

3,147

(112)

(620)

(1,752)

(2,484)

844

(8)

Other
Balance as of December 31, 2018

Investments in group companies
Investments in group companies increased by EUR
3,619 million. The increase is mainly due to additions
and acquisitions of EUR 2,950 million out of which EUR
2,676 million relates to capital injections to US
subsidiaries. The remaining increase relates to capital
injections to other group companies and new
acquisitions.
The capitalization of the US was done to align the US
financing with its business profile by increasing equity
financing, reducing long-term intercompany debt and
settling in-house bank positions.
The line Dividends received represents interim
dividends paid by group companies to Koninklijke
Philips N.V.
EUR 258 million of positive translation adjustments
reflect value adjustments of net invested capital in
foreign group companies denominated in other
currencies than EUR. The value increase is mainly
related to a stronger USD versus the EUR.
EUR 222 million reduction on the line of Other reflects
local other equity movements of group companies.

836

(100)

Value adjustment
Translation differences

(434)

2,950

(100)
(210)

258

1

(210)
175

(222)
15,704

434
(222)

92

4,368

20,164

Investments in associates
The most notable movement of Investments in
associates relates to Signify. During 2018, the carrying
value reduced by EUR 620 million due to the sale of
20.26 million shares and EUR 209 million value
adjustments.
The remaining stake of EUR 434 million was reclassified
to Current financial assets.
Loans
Loans to group companies reduced primarily due to the
repayment of EUR 1,566 million by a US subsidiary,
which was a part of the change in capitalization of US
subsidiaries as described above.
The EUR 175 million translation differences mainly
reflects currency impact on USD denominated loans.
List of investments in group companies
A list of investments in group companies, prepared in
accordance with the relevant legal requirements (Dutch
Civil Code, Book 2, Sections 379 and 414), is deposited
at the Chamber of Commerce in Eindhoven,
Netherlands.

Annual Report 2018

185

Statements 11.2.4

I

Other financial assets
Other non-current financial assets
The changes during 2018 were as follows:
Koninklijke Philips N.V.
Other financial assets in millions of EUR
2018
Non-current financial
assets at FVTOCI

Non-current financial
assets at FVTP&L

Non-current financial assets at Amortized cost

Total

73

71

27

171

(1)

(1)

1

20

1

22

Sales/redemptions/reductions

(10)

(15)

(21)

(45)

Value adjustments through OCI

(23)

-

(23)

Balance as of January 1, 2018 1)
Changes:
Reclassifications
Acquisitions/additions

Value adjustments through P&L

(4)

Translation differences
Balance as of December 31, 2018
1)

Current financial assets
In 2018, Current financial assets increased by EUR 434
million, mainly reflecting the reclassification of Signify
shares. As of December 2018, the remaining interest of
16.5% in Signify was reclassified from Investments in
associates to Current financial assets, with fair value
changes recognized in OCI.

2017
Trade accounts receivable
Receivables from group companies
Other receivables
Advances and prepaid expenses
Derivative instruments - assets
Receivables

2018

74

22

11,183

3,890

101

40

6

33

73

65

11,436

4,051

Receivables from group companies mainly relate to inhouse bank contracts. These positions decreased due
to the change in capitalization of US subsidiaries as
described in Financial fixed assets, starting on page 184.

L

Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents are all freely available.
Shareholders’ equity
Common shares
As of December 31, 2018, authorized common shares
consist of 2 billion shares (December 31, 2017: 2 billion)
and the issued and fully paid share capital consists of
926,195,539 common shares, each share having a par
value of EUR 0.20 (December 31, 2017: 940,909,027).

186

-

3

43

74

6

122

Annual Report 2018

The following table shows the movements in the
outstanding number of shares:
Koninklijke Philips N.V.
Outstanding number of shares in number of shares
2017 - 2018
Balance as of
January 1
Dividend
distributed

2017

2018

922,436,563

926,191,723

11,264,163

9,533,223

Purchase of
treasury shares

(19,841,595)

(31,993,879)

Re-issuance of
treasury shares

12,332,592

10,453,020

926,191,723

914,184,087

Balance as of
December 31

Receivables
Koninklijke Philips N.V.
Receivables in millions of EUR
2017 - 2018

K

1

Refer to IFRS 9 disclosure in Significant accounting policies note for the impact of IFRS 9 on 2018 opening balance.

The Company’s investments in non-current financial
assets mainly consist of investments in common shares
of companies in various industries. Acquisitions/
additions mainly relate to new investments and capital
calls for certain investment funds. Sales/redemptions/
reductions relate to distribution notes from those
investment funds.

J

(4)

2

Preference shares
As a means to protect the company and its
stakeholders against an unsolicited attempt to obtain
(de facto) control of the Company, the General Meeting
of Shareholders in 1989 adopted amendments to the
Company’s articles of association that allow the Board
of Management and the Supervisory Board to issue
(rights to acquire) preference shares to a third party. The
‘Stichting Preferente Aandelen Philips’ has been
granted the right to acquire preference shares in the
Company. Such right has not been exercised as of
December 31, 2018 and no preference shares have been
issued. Authorized preference shares consist of 2 billion
shares as of December 31, 2018 (December 31, 2017: 2
billion).
Options, restricted and performance shares
The Company has granted stock options on its common
shares and rights to receive common shares in the
future. Please refer to Share-based compensation,
starting on page 163, which is deemed incorporated and
repeated herein by reference.
Treasury shares
In connection with the Company’s share repurchase
programs (see next paragraph for Share repurchase
methods for share-based compensation plans and

Statements 11.2.4

capital reduction purposes) shares which have been
repurchased and are held in Treasury for the purpose of
(i) delivery upon exercise of options, restricted and
performance share programs, and (ii) capital reduction,
are accounted for as a reduction of shareholders’
equity. Treasury shares are recorded at cost,
representing the market price on the acquisition date.
When issued, shares are removed from treasury shares
on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis.
When treasury shares are reissued under the
Company’s option plans, the difference between the
cost and the cash received is recorded in retained
earnings. When treasury shares are reissued under the
Company’s share plans, the difference between the
market price of the shares issued and the cost is
recorded in retained earnings, the market price is
recorded in capital in excess of par value.
The following transactions took place resulting from
employee option and share plans:
Koninklijke Philips N.V.
Employee option and share plan transactions
2017- 2018
Shares acquired
Average market price

2017

2018

15,222,662

8,226,101

EUR 31.81

EUR 32.59

EUR 484 million

EUR 268 million

Shares delivered

12,332,592

10,453,020

Average price (FIFO)

EUR 27.07

EUR 32.66

EUR 334 million

EUR 341 million

Amount paid

Cost of delivered
shares
Total shares in
treasury at year-end
Total cost

10,098,371

7,871,452

EUR 331 million

EUR 258 million

Koninklijke Philips N.V.
Share capital transactions
2017- 2018
2018

Shares acquired

4,618,933

23,767,778

Average market price

EUR 32.47

EUR 32.58

EUR 150 million

EUR 774 million

Amount paid
Reduction of capital
stock (shares)

24,246,711

Reduction of capital
stock

EUR 783 million

Total shares in
treasury at year-end
Total cost

Forward share repurchase contracts
In order to hedge commitments under share-based
compensation plans, Philips entered into three forward
contracts in the last quarter of 2018, involving 10 million
shares. This resulted in a reduction of Retained earnings
of EUR 319 million against Short-term and Long-term
liabilities. Additionally, in the first quarter of 2018 the
remaining forward contracts under the forward share
buy-back contract of 2017 were exercised at a forward
price of EUR 27.03, resulting in a EUR 20 million
increase in Retained earnings against Treasury shares.
As of December 31, 2018, 10 million forward contracts
connected to share based compensation plans were
outstanding.
In order to reduce its share capital, Royal Philips also
entered into six forward contracts in 2017. The forward
contacts involved 31,020,000 shares with a settlement
date varying between October 2018 and June 2019 and
a weighted average forward price of EUR 32.22. In 2018,
12,420,000 forward contracts were exercised resulting
in a EUR 423 million increase in Retained earnings
against Treasury shares. As of December 31, 2018,
18,600,000 forward contracts connected to share
capital reductions were outstanding. For further
information on the forward contracts please refer to
Debt.
Share call options
During 2016, Philips bought EUR and USDdenominated call options to hedge options granted
under share-based compensation plans before 2013.

In order to reduce share capital, the following
transactions took place:

2017

repurchases in the open market via an intermediary (ii)
repurchase of shares via forward contracts for future
delivery of shares (iii) the unwinding of call options on
own shares. In 2018, Royal Philips also used methods (i)
and (ii) to repurchase shares for capital reduction
purposes.

4,618,933

4,140,000

EUR 150 million

EUR 141 million

In 2018, the Company unwound 1,263,486 EURdenominated and 1,204,126 USD-denominated call
options against the transfer of the same number of
Royal Philips shares (2,467,612 shares) and an
additional EUR 51 million cash payment to the buyer of
the call options.
The number of outstanding EUR denominated options
were 2,023,639 and USD-denominated options were
1,770,218, as of December 2018.
Dividend distribution

Share purchase transactions related to employee option
and share plans, as well as transactions related to the
reduction of share capital, involved a cash outflow of
EUR 1,042 million. A cash inflow of EUR 94 million from
treasury shares mainly includes settlements of sharebased compensation plans.
Share repurchase methods for share-based
compensation plans and capital reduction purposes
During 2018, Royal Philips repurchased shares for
share-based compensation plans and capital reduction
purposes via three different methods: (i) share buy-back

2018
In June 2018, Philips settled a dividend of EUR 0.80 per
common share, representing a total value of EUR 738
million including costs. Shareholders could elect for a
cash dividend or a share dividend. Approximately 46%
of the shareholders elected for a share dividend,
resulting in the issuance of 9,533,233 new common
shares. The settlement of the cash dividend involved an
amount of EUR 400 million (including costs).

Annual Report 2018

187

Statements 11.2.4

A proposal will be submitted to the 2019 Annual
General Meeting of Shareholders to pay a dividend of
EUR 0.85 per common share, in cash or shares at the
option of the shareholders, against the net income of
the Company for 2018.

on the ability of affiliated companies to transfer funds to
the parent company in the form of dividends.
Limitations in the distribution of shareholders’ equity
As at December, 2018, pursuant to Dutch law, certain
limitations exist relating to the distribution of
shareholders’ equity of EUR 1,558 million. Such
limitations relate to common shares of EUR 185 million,
as well as to unrealized currency translation gains of
EUR 739 million and ‘affiliated companies’ of EUR 634
million. The unrealized losses related to fair value
through OCI financial assets of EUR 181 million and
unrealized losses related to cash flow hedges of EUR 10
million qualify as revaluation reserves and reduce the
distributable amount due to the fact that these reserves
are negative.

2017
In June 2017, Philips settled a dividend of EUR 0.80 per
common share, representing a total value of EUR 742
million including costs. Shareholders could elect for a
cash dividend or a share dividend. Approximately 48%
of the shareholders elected for a share dividend,
resulting in the issuance of 11,264,163 new common
shares. The settlement of the cash dividend involved an
amount of EUR 384 million (including costs).
Revaluation and Other Legal Reserves
As of December 31, 2018, revaluation reserves relate to
unrealized losses on fair value through OCI financial
assets of EUR 181 million (2017: EUR 30 million
unrealized gains) and unrealized losses on cash flow
hedges of EUR 10 million (2017: EUR 23 million
unrealized gains). Legal reserves relate to ‘affiliated
companies’ of EUR 634 million (2017: EUR 703 million)
and unrealized currency translation gains of EUR 739
million (2017: EUR 393 million unrealized gains).

As at December 31, 2017, pursuant to Dutch law,
limitations existed relating to the distribution of
shareholders’ equity of EUR 1,283 million. Such
limitations related to common shares of EUR 188
million, unrealized currency translation gains of EUR
392 million and ‘affiliated companies’ of EUR 703
million. The unrealized losses related to fair value
through OCI financial assets of EUR 30 million qualify as
a revaluation reserve and reduce the distributable
amount due to the fact that this reserve is negative.

The item ‘affiliated companies’ relates to the ‘wettelijke
reserve deelnemingen’, which is required by Dutch law.
This reserve relates to any legal or economic restrictions
M

Debt
Long-term debt
The tables below disclose information on the long-term debt outstanding, its maturity and average interest rates in 2017
and 2018.
Koninklijke Philips N.V.
Long-term debt in millions of EUR, unless otherwise stated
2018
amount
outstanding in
2018

Current
portion

Non-current
portion

Between 1
and 5 years

Average
remaining term (in
years)

Average
rate of
interest

1,303

18.1

6.3%

991

5.0

0.7%
3.1%

USD bonds

1,303

EUR bonds

1,988

500

1,488

497

Intercompany loans

499

405

94

94

1.2

Forward contracts

807

618

188

188

0.8

Bank borrowings

200

Other long-term debt
Long-term debt

1,303

Amount due
after 5 years

200

18

18

4,814

1,541

3,273

200
780

6.2

0.0%

1.0

1.6%

Average
rate of
interest

2,494

Koninklijke Philips N.V.
Long-term debt in millions of EUR, unless otherwise stated
2017
amount
outstanding in
2017

Noncurrent
portion

Between 1
and 5 years

Amount due
after 5 years

Average
remaining term (in
years)

USD bonds

2,137

2,137

833

1,305

13.3

5.4%

EUR bonds

997

997

501

496

3.7

0.3%

Intercompany loans

118

118

Forward contracts

970

394

576

576

Bank borrowings

178

44

133

133

19

19

4418

575

Other long-term debt
Long-term debt

188

Current
portion

Annual Report 2018

3.3%

3843

2043

1.2

1801

2.1

0.9%

1.0

0.9%

Statements 11.2.5

Short-term debt
Short-term debt mainly relates to the current portion of outstanding external and intercompany long-term debt of EUR
1,541 million (2017: EUR 575 million), other debt to group companies totaling EUR 8,934 million (2017: EUR 15,378 million)
and short-term bank borrowings of EUR 10 million (2017: rounded nil). Debt to group companies mainly relates to inhouse bank contracts. These positions decreased due to the change in capitalization of US subsidiaries as described in
Financial fixed assets, starting on page 184.
N

Other current liabilities

power to determine what portion of the net income
shall be retained by way of reserve, subject to the
approval of the Supervisory Board.

Koninklijke Philips N.V.
Other current liabilities in millions of EUR
2017 - 2018
Other short-term liabilities
Accrued expenses

O

2017

2018

18

42

82

38

Derivative instruments - liabilities

203

198

Other current liabilities

303

278

Contractual obligations and contingent liabilities not
appearing in the balance sheet
The Company has contracts with investment funds
where it committed itself to make, under certain
conditions, capital contributions to their funds to an
aggregated remaining amount of EUR 74 million (2017:
EUR 83 million). As at December 31, 2018, capital
contributions already made to this investment funds are
recorded as Other non-current financial assets.
General guarantees as referred to in Section 403, Book
2, of the Dutch Civil Code, have been given by the
Company on behalf of several group companies in the
Netherlands. The liabilities of these companies to third
parties and investments in associates totaled EUR 1,297
million as of year-end 2018 (2017: EUR 1,224 million).
Guarantees totaling EUR 634 million (2017: EUR 458
million) have also been given on behalf of other group
companies. As at December 31, 2018 there have been
EUR 26 million business and credit guarantees given on
behalf of unconsolidated companies and third parties
(2017: EUR 26 million).
The Company is the head of a fiscal unity that contains
the most significant Dutch wholly-owned group
companies. The Company is therefore jointly and
severally liable for the tax liabilities of the tax entity as a
whole.
For additional information, please refer to Contingent
assets and liabilities, starting on page 162, which is
deemed incorporated and repeated herein by
reference.

P

Appropriation of profits and profit distributions
Pursuant to article 34 of the articles of association of
the Company, a dividend will first be declared on
preference shares out of net income. The remainder of
the net income, after any retention by way of reserve
with the approval of the Supervisory Board, shall be
available for distribution to holders of common shares
subject to shareholder approval after year-end. As of
December 31, 2018, the issued share capital consists
only of common shares. No preference shares have
been issued. Article 33 of the articles of association of
the Company gives the Board of Management the

A proposal will be submitted to the 2019 Annual
General Meeting of Shareholders to pay a dividend of
EUR 0.85 per common share, in cash or shares at the
option of the shareholders, against the net income of
the company for 2018.
Q

Subsequent events
New share buyback program
On January 29, 2019, Philips announced a new share
buyback program for an amount of up to EUR 1.5 billion.
At the current share price, the program represents a
total of approximately 46 million shares. Philips expects
to start the program in the first quarter of 2019 and to
complete it within two years. As the program will be
initiated for capital reduction purposes, Philips intends
to cancel all of the shares acquired under the program.
The program will be executed by an intermediary to
allow for purchases in the open market during both
open and closed periods, in accordance with the EU
Market Abuse Regulation.
Claim LG Electronics, Inc (LGE)
In connection with the CRT matter as referenced in
Contingent assets and liabilities, starting on page 162,
which is deemed incorporated and repeated herein by
reference, the Company was served with a claim filed
by LGE in the Seoul Central District Court on January
29, 2019. LGE claims restitution of EUR 64.6 million,
representing a portion of the fine that LGE paid to the
European Commission relating to the joint venture
LG.Philips Displays for which LGE and the Company
were jointly and severally liable. LGE alleges that based
on the manner in which the fine was calculated, the
Company should have paid proportionately more than
it currently has.

11.2.5 Independent auditor's report
To: The Supervisory Board and Shareholders of
Koninklijke Philips N.V.
Report on the audit of the financial statements 2018
included in the annual report
Our opinion
We have audited the financial statements 2018 of
Koninklijke Philips N.V. (the Company), based in
Eindhoven, the Netherlands. The financial statements
include the group financial statements and the
company financial statements.

Annual Report 2018

189

Statements 11.2.5

In our opinion:
• The accompanying group financial statements give a
true and fair view of the financial position of
Koninklijke Philips N.V. as at December 31, 2018, and
of its result and its cash flows for 2018 in accordance
with International Financial Reporting Standards as
adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with
Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code
• The accompanying company financial statements
give a true and fair view of the financial position of
Koninklijke Philips N.V. as at December 31, 2018, and
of its result for 2018 in accordance with Part 9 of
Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code
The group financial statements comprise:
• The consolidated balance sheet as at December 31,
2018
• The following statements for 2018: the consolidated
statements of income, comprehensive income, cash
flows and changes in equity
• The notes comprising a summary of the significant
accounting policies and other explanatory
information
The company financial statements comprise:
• The company balance sheet as at December 31,
2018
• The company statements of income and changes in
equity for 2018
• The notes comprising a summary of the accounting
policies and other explanatory information
Basis for our opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law,
including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our
responsibilities under those standards are further
described in the “Our responsibilities for the audit of the
financial statements” section of our report.
We are independent of Koninklijke Philips N.V. in
accordance with the EU Regulation on specific
requirements regarding statutory audit of publicinterest entities, the “Wet toezicht
accountantsorganisaties” (Wta, Audit firms supervision
act), the “Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van
accountants bij assurance-opdrachten” (ViO, Code of
Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with
respect to independence) and other relevant
independence regulations in the Netherlands.
Furthermore, we have complied with the “Verordening
gedrags- en beroepsregels accountants” (VGBA, Dutch
Code of Ethics).
We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion.

Materiality
Materiality

EUR 75 million

Benchmark
applied
Explanation

5% of income before taxes
Based on our professional judgment we
consider an earnings-based measure as the
most appropriate basis to determine
materiality. Based on the actual benchmark
result, we continued to apply a materiality of
EUR 75 million. The applied benchmark is in
line with the 2017 audit. Due to a higher
income before taxes, materiality increased
compared to prior year (2017: EUR 60 million)

We have also taken into account misstatements and/or
possible misstatements that in our opinion are material
for the users of the financial statements for qualitative
reasons.
We agreed with the Supervisory Board that
misstatements in excess of EUR 3.75 million, which are
identified during the audit, would be reported to them,
as well as smaller misstatements that in our view must
be reported on qualitative grounds.
Scope of the group audit
Koninklijke Philips N.V. is the head of a group of entities.
The consolidated statements of Koninklijke Philips N.V.
represent the financial information of this group.
Following our assessment of the risk of material
misstatement to Koninklijke Philips N.V.’s group financial
statements, we have selected 8 components which
required an audit of the complete financial information
(Full Scope Components) and 42 components requiring
audit procedures on specific account balances or
specified audit procedures that we considered had the
potential for the greatest impact on the significant
accounts in the financial statements, either because of
the size of these accounts or their risk profile (Specificor Specified Scope Components). The Central Audit
team performed audit procedures on certain accounting
areas managed centrally, such as capitalized research &
development costs, health systems revenue (non US)
and goodwill. In addition, the Central Audit team, next
to the procedures performed by the component teams,
had additional involvement in the areas of tax and legal
claims, litigation and contingencies.
As a result of our scoping of the complete financial
information, specific account balances and the
performance of audit procedures at different levels in
the organization, our actual coverage varies per account
balance and the depth of our audit procedures per
account balance varies depending on our risk
assessment.
Of the remaining components, we performed selected
other procedures, including analytical review and
detailed testing to respond to potential risks of material
misstatements to the financial statements that we
identified.
Accordingly, our audit coverage, for selected account
balances included in the key audit matters stated
below, are summarized as follows:

190

Annual Report 2018

Statements 11.2.5

Sales in %

component auditors applied a component materiality
that is significantly less than this threshold.
26

Full scope

36

Specific scope
31

Specified procedures
Other procedures

7

Goodwill in %

100

Full scope

Deferred tax assets in %

16

Full scope

57

Specific scope
Specified procedures

12
15

Other procedures

Component auditors visited the Netherlands in 2018 to
attend our global audit planning conference to discuss
the Group audit, risks, audit approach and instructions.
In addition, we sent detailed instructions to all
component auditors, covering the significant areas and
the information required to be reported to us. Based on
our risk assessment, we visited component locations in
the U.S.A., China, the Netherlands, Panama, Germany,
India, France, UK, Italy, Poland and Israel. These visits
encompassed some, or all, of the following activities:
co-developing the significant risk area audit approach,
reviewing key local working papers and conclusions,
meeting with local and regional leadership teams,
obtaining an understanding of key control processes
including centralized entity level controls processes and
attending closing meetings. We interacted regularly with
the component teams during various stages of the audit
and were responsible for the scope and direction of the
audit process. Where deemed appropriate we attended
in person or via conference call, Full Scope Component
and certain Specific Scope Component closing
meetings and reviewed key working papers.

Legal claims, litigation and contingencies in %

Full scope
Specific scope
Specified procedures

13
16
71

R&D in %

Full scope

100

Involvement with component teams
Component materiality was determined using
judgment, based on the relative size of the component
and our risk assessment. Component materiality did not
exceed EUR 37.5 million and the majority of our

By performing the procedures mentioned above at
components, together with additional procedures at
group level, we have been able to obtain sufficient and
appropriate audit evidence about the group’s financial
information to provide an opinion on the group financial
statements.
Our key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our
professional judgment, were of most significance in our
audit of the financial statements. We have
communicated the key audit matters to the Supervisory
Board. The key audit matters are not a comprehensive
reflection of all matters discussed.
These matters were addressed in the context of our
audit of the financial statements as a whole and in
forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a
separate opinion on these matters.

Annual Report 2018

191

Statements 11.2.5

Revenue recognition – multiple element sales contracts and sales promotions
Risk

Sales contracts for certain transactions primarily entered into in the Diagnosis & Treatment businesses
and the Connected Care & Health Informatics businesses involve multiple elements. Those multiple
elements, or separately identifiable performance obligations, are recognized based on their relative
stand-alone selling price when the performance obligation is satisfied. This gives rise to the risk that
sales could be misstated due to the incorrect determination of the relative stand-alone selling price
and its allocation to the performance obligations and therefore timing of the related revenue
recognition.
In addition, primarily in the Personal Health businesses the Company has sales promotions related
agreements with distributors and retailers whereby discounts and rebates are provided according to
the quantity of goods sold and promotional and marketing activity performed. In particular, the
promotional and marketing agreements include a number of characteristics that require judgment to
be applied in determining the appropriate accounting treatment based on the terms of the respective
agreements. Management must estimate the expected consideration which can include fixed and/or
variable amounts which can be impacted by trade discounts and volume rebates. Sales related
accruals (rebates, marketing and promotional support, coupon and stock protection) are assessed at
the balance sheet date based on forecast information over the term of the promotion. There may also
be incentives to change the timing of when sales related accruals within the Personal Health
businesses are recognized.
Further reference is made to note 1, Significant accounting policies and note 6, Income from operations
section Sales composition and disaggregation.

Our audit approach

Our audit procedures included, among others, assessing the appropriateness of the Company’s
revenue recognition accounting policies, including the impact of the new revenue recognition
accounting standard (IFRS 15) which has been adopted as of January 1, 2018 and related disclosures as
included in note 1, Significant accounting policies.
We verified the relative stand-alone selling price determination by auditing the basis on which the
stand-alone selling price is determined and tested the accuracy of the allocation to the performance
obligations. Further we have performed data analytics, inspected selected sales contracts, obtained
Terms & Condition confirmations, inspected the installation hours reported after recognition of revenue
and inspected hand over certificates received from the customers.
With respect to the sales related accruals, our procedures included:
• challenging management’s assumptions used in determining the sales related accruals
• sampling recorded amounts to contractual evidence
• performing retrospective review of actual settlements verifying there were no significant differences to
prior period sales related accruals
• testing cut-off through assessing the sales promotion obligations around year-end
As part of our audit procedures we tested the effectiveness of the Company’s controls over the standalone selling price determination of multi element sales contracts as well as the completeness and
accuracy of the sales related accruals to assess the correct value and timing of revenue recognition.
We also assessed the adequacy of the sales disclosures contained in note 6, Income from operations
section Sales composition and disaggregation.

Key observations

We confirm that the Company’s revenue recognition accounting policies were appropriately applied
and that the impact of the new revenue recognition accounting standard (IFRS 15) is appropriately
disclosed in note 1, Significant accounting policies.
Furthermore, we have assessed that management’s assumptions are within the acceptable range. In
addition, we assessed that the disclosures in note 6, Income from operations section Sales
composition and disaggregation are reasonable.

Valuation of Goodwill

192

Risk

At December 31, 2018, the total carrying value of goodwill amounted to EUR 8,503 million, representing
33% of the group’s total assets. Goodwill is allocated to Cash Generating Units (CGUs) for which
management is required to test the carrying value of goodwill for impairment annually or more
frequently if there is a triggering event for testing. We focused on this area given the significant
judgment and complexity of valuation methodologies used to determine whether the carrying value of
goodwill is appropriate, which includes the assumptions used within models to support the
recoverable amount of goodwill. Further reference is made to note 11, Goodwill.

Our audit approach

As part of our audit we assessed and tested the assumptions, methodologies and data used by the
Company in their valuation model, by comparing them to external data such as expected inflation
rates, discount rates and implied growth rates. Additionally, we validated that the cash flow projections
used in the valuation are consistent with the information approved by the Executive Committee and
have evaluated the historical accuracy of management’s estimates that drive the assessment, such as
business plans and expected growth rates. We challenged if the identified CGUs are in line with how
management monitors the entity’s operations. Furthermore we reconciled the market value of the
Company to the sum of the carrying values of the CGUs.
We included in our team a valuation expert to assist us in these audit activities.
Our main focus was on the CGUs Aging & Caregiving and Population Insights & Care (both within the
Connected Care & Health Informatics segment) as these represent CGUs with limited headroom. We
gained a more in-depth understanding of the developments of the performance of these CGUs and
corroborated if they are in line with forecasted figures.
For these CGUs, we performed sensitivity analysis by stress testing key assumptions (sales growth,
EBITA and discount rate) in the model to consider the degree to which these assumptions would need
to change before an impairment charge would have to be recognized.
We have also tested the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls around the goodwill
accounting including their prospective financial information. We also assessed the adequacy of the
Company’s disclosure around goodwill as included in note 11, Goodwill.

Key observations

We consider management’s assumptions to be within a reasonable range.
We note that the Company concluded from its impairment tests that headroom for the CGUs Aging &
Caregiving and Population Insights & Care is relatively limited and thus sensitive to changes in the
assumptions.
We agree with management’s conclusion that no impairment of goodwill is required in 2018.
We assessed that the disclosures in note 11, Goodwill are reasonable.

Annual Report 2018

Statements 11.2.5

Valuation and disclosure related to deferred tax assets
Risk

The Company has a significant amount of deferred tax assets, mainly resulting from net operating
losses. The accounting for deferred tax assets is significant to our audit since the Company makes
judgments and estimates of forecasted taxable income in relation to the realization of deferred tax
assets.
At December 31, 2018, the deferred tax assets are valued at EUR 1,828 million, representing 7% of the
group’s total assets. Further reference is made to note 8, Income taxes.

Our audit approach

With the involvement of our tax experts we evaluated the tax accounting in various jurisdictions in
which the Company operates, taking into account the impact of the local tax jurisdiction and changes
in the respective tax legislation.
We tested management’s assumptions used to determine the probability that deferred tax assets
recognized in the balance sheet will be recovered. This is based upon forecasted taxable income in the
countries where the deferred tax assets originated and the periods when the deferred tax assets can
be utilized. The forecasts (based on the Company’s budget and strategic plan) were evaluated by us
and we assessed the historical accuracy of management’s assumptions.
We have also tested the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls around the valuation of
deferred tax assets. Substantive audit procedures comprised comparing information provided by
management to corroborative or contradictory information where possible, such as previous history in
certain countries. We also assessed the adequacy of the Company’s disclosures included in note 8,
Income taxes.

Key observations

We consider the Company’s accounting policies acceptable and management’s assumptions and
estimates to be within the reasonable range.
We assessed that the disclosures in note 8, Income taxes are reasonable.

Valuation and disclosure of accrual estimates for legal claims, litigations and contingencies
Risk

The Company and certain of its group companies and former group companies are involved as a party
in legal proceedings, including regulatory and other governmental proceedings, as well as
investigations by authorities.
We focused on this area in our audit, since the accounting and disclosure for (contingent) legal
liabilities is complex and judgmental (due to the difficulty in predicting the outcome of the matter and
estimating the potential impact if the outcome is unfavorable), and the amounts involved are, or can
be, material to the financial statements as a whole. Further reference is made to note 19, Provisions
and note 24, Contingent assets and liabilities.

Our audit approach

Our audit procedures included, among others, testing the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
controls around the identification and evaluation of claims, proceedings and investigations at different
levels in the group, and the recording and continuous re-assessment of the related (contingent)
liabilities and provisions and disclosures. We inquired with both internal and external legal counsel as
well as with the Company’s financial department in respect of (ongoing) investigations, claims or
proceedings, inspected relevant correspondence, inspected the minutes of the meetings of the Audit
Committee, Supervisory Board and Executive Committee, requested a confirmation letter from the
group’s in-house legal counsel and obtained external legal confirmation letters from a selection of
external legal counsels. For claims settled during the year, we vouched the cash payments, as
appropriate, and read the related settlement agreements in order to verify whether the settlements
were properly accounted for.
Specifically related to ongoing compliance related investigations, we were supported by a fraud
investigation expert from our firm.
We also assessed the adequacy of the Company’s disclosure around legal claims, litigations and
contingencies as included in note 19, Provisions and note 24, Contingent assets and liabilities.

Key observations

We consider management’s conclusion on the predicted outcome and estimation of potential impact
reasonable and we assessed that the disclosures in note 19, Provisions and note 24, Contingent assets
and liabilities are reasonable.

Annual Report 2018

193

Statements 11.2.5

Valuation of capitalized research and development cost (product development)
Risk

At December 31, 2018, the total carrying value of the product development amounted to EUR 1,102
million (representing 4% of the group’s total assets) of which EUR 481 million is related to product
development construction in progress.
For the product development construction in progress, management is required to test the carrying
value of such amounts for impairment annually or more frequently if there is a triggering event. We
focused on this area as these products do not yet generate sales and therefore there is a higher level of
judgment involved in setting the significant assumptions in determining the value in use to support the
carrying value. Further reference is made to note 12, Intangible assets excluding goodwill.

Our audit approach

As part of our audit we assessed and tested the assumptions, methodology (discounted cash flow
model) and data used by the Company in calculating the value in use of the individual product
development construction in progress. Our audit procedures included, among others, performing a
sensitivity analysis by stress testing key assumptions (discount rate) in the model to consider the
degree to which these assumptions would need to change before an impairment charge would have to
be recognized.
Based on these sensitivity analyses, our main focus was on the product development construction in
progress items with limited headroom. We gained a more in-depth understanding of the development
status of these projects as well as the projected financial information used in management’s
assessment of whether the value in use of these items exceeds the carrying value. We assessed and
tested the key assumptions, with our main focus on discount rate, growth rate, market size and share
and expected project costs by comparing to historical or external information.
We have also tested the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls around the valuation of
product development construction in progress, including their prospective financial information. We
also assessed the adequacy of the Company’s disclosure around product development construction in
progress, as included in note 12, Intangible assets excluding goodwill.

Key observations

We consider management’s assumptions to be within a reasonable range.
We agree with management’s conclusion that the carrying value of the capitalized research and
development costs related to product development construction in progress is reasonable.
We assessed that the disclosures in note 12, Intangible assets excluding goodwill are reasonable.

In the previous year’s auditor’s report ‘Acquisitions’ and
‘Disposals and discontinued operations accounting
treatment’ were also identified as key audit matters.
Although the Company acquired nine new entities
during 2018, the aggregated cash flow, goodwill and
other intangibles amounts were significantly less in
comparison to the 2017 acquisitions. As a result
‘Acquisitions’ is not identified as key audit matter for our
2018 audit. In our 2017 audit, following the sale of the
majority interest in the combined Lumileds and
Automotive businesses and the further sell-down of
Signify shares, the control assessment and the
accounting of discontinued operations was an attention
area. At December 31, 2018, Koninklijke Philips N.V. no
longer has significant influence in Signify and therefore
the control assessment and asset held for sale
accounting was no longer relevant and as a result this is
not a key audit matter for our 2018 audit.

We have read the other information. Based on our
knowledge and understanding obtained through our
audit of the financial statements or otherwise, we have
considered whether the other information contains
material misstatements. By performing these
procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9
of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch
Standard 720. The scope of the procedures performed
is substantially less than the scope of those performed
in our audit of the financial statements.

Report on other information included in the annual
report
In addition to the financial statements and our auditor’s
report thereon, the annual report contains other
information that consists of:

Engagement
Following the appointment by the Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders on May 7, 2015, we were
engaged by the Supervisory Board as auditor of
Koninklijke Philips N.V. on October 22, 2015 as of the
audit for the year 2016 and have operated as statutory
auditor since that date.

• The management report
• Other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of
the Dutch Civil Code
• Sustainability statements
• Five year key financial and sustainability information
• Investor relations information
Based on the following procedures performed, we
conclude that the other information:
• Is consistent with the financial statements and does
not contain material misstatements
• Contains the information as required by Part 9 of
Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code

194

Annual Report 2018

Management is responsible for the preparation of the
other information, including the management report in
accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil
Code and other information as required by Part 9 of
Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

No prohibited non-audit services
We have not provided prohibited non-audit services as
referred to in Article 5(1) of the EU Regulation on
specific requirements regarding statutory audit of
public-interest entities.

Statements 11.2.5

Description of responsibilities for the financial
statements
Responsibilities of the Board of Management and the
Supervisory Board for the financial statements
The Board of Management is responsible for the
preparation and fair presentation of the financial
statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and Part 9 of
Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, the Board
of Management is responsible for such internal control
as the Board of Management determines is necessary
to enable the preparation of the financial statements
that are free from material misstatement, whether due
to fraud or error.

•

•

•

As part of the preparation of the financial statements,
the Board of Management is responsible for assessing
the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Based on the financial reporting frameworks
mentioned, the Board of Management should prepare
the financial statements using the going concern basis
of accounting unless the Board of Management either
intends to liquidate the Company or to cease
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Board of Management should disclose events and
circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the
financial statements.

•

The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the
Company’s financial reporting process.

•

Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial
statements
Our objective is to plan and perform the audit
engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain
sufficient and appropriate audit evidence for our
opinion.
Our audit has been performed with a high, but not
absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not
detect all material errors and fraud during our audit.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,
they could reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
financial statements. The materiality affects the nature,
timing and extent of our audit procedures and the
evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on
our opinion.
We have exercised professional judgment and have
maintained professional skepticism throughout the
audit, in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing,
ethical requirements and independence requirements.
Our audit included among others:
• Identifying and assessing the risks of material
misstatement of the financial statements, whether
due to fraud or error, designing and performing audit
procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining
audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not

detecting a material misstatement resulting from
fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of
internal control
Obtaining an understanding of internal control
relevant to the audit in order to design audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances
Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting
policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
estimates and related disclosures made by
management
Concluding on the appropriateness of
management’s use of the going concern basis of
accounting, and based on the audit evidence
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists
related to events or conditions that may cast
significant doubt on the Company’s ability to
continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw
attention in our auditor’s report to the related
disclosures in the financial statements or, if such
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence
obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report.
However, future events or conditions may cause a
company to cease to continue as a going concern
Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and
content of the financial statements, including the
disclosures
Evaluating whether the financial statements
represent the underlying transactions and events in
a manner that achieves fair presentation

Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion,
we are also responsible for directing, supervising and
performing the group audit. In this respect we have
determined the nature and extent of the audit
procedures to be carried out for group entities. Decisive
were the size and/or the risk profile of the group entities
or operations. On this basis, we selected group entities
for which an audit or review had to be carried out on the
complete set of financial information or specific items.
We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding,
among other matters, the planned scope and timing of
the audit and significant audit findings, including any
significant findings in internal control that we identify
during our audit. In this respect we also submit an
additional report to the Audit Committee in accordance
with Article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific
requirements regarding statutory audit of publicinterest entities. The information included in this
additional report is consistent with our audit opinion in
this auditor’s report.
We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that
we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and communicate with them
all relationships and other matters that may reasonably
be thought to bear on our independence, and where
applicable, related safeguards.

Annual Report 2018

195

Statements 11.3

From the matters communicated with the Supervisory
Board, we determine the key audit matters: those
matters that were of most significance in the audit of
the financial statements. We describe these matters in
our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes
public disclosure about the matter or when, in
extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the
matter is in the public interest.
Amsterdam, the Netherlands
February 26, 2019
Ernst & Young Accountants LLP
Signed by S.D.J. Overbeek - Goeseije

11.3 Sustainability statements
11.3.1 Approach to sustainability reporting
Philips has a long tradition of sustainability reporting,
beginning with our first environmental Annual Report
published in 1999. This was expanded in 2003, with the
launch of our first sustainability Annual Report, which
provided details of our social and economic
performance in addition to our environmental results.
As a next step, in 2008, we decided to publish an
integrated financial, social and environmental report.
This is our 11th annual integrated financial, social and
environmental report. For more information, please
refer to the company’s website.
Royal Philips publishes its integrated Annual Report
with the highest (reasonable) assurance level on the
financial, social and environmental performance. With
that overall reasonable assurance level, Philips is a
frontrunner in our industry.
Tracking trends
We follow external trends continuously to determine
the issues most relevant for our company and where we
can make a positive contribution to society at large. In
Stakeholder overview (non-exhaustive)
Examples
Employees

–

Stakeholders
We derive significant value from our diverse
stakeholders across all our activities and engage with,
listen to and learn from them. Working in partnerships is
crucial to delivering on our vision to make the world
healthier and more sustainable through innovation. We
incorporate their feedback on specific areas of our
business into our planning and actions. In addition, we
participate in meetings and task forces as a member of
organizations including the World Economic Forum,
WBCSD, Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), Dutch
Sustainable Growth Coalition, the Ellen MacArthur
Foundation, and the European Partnership for
Responsible Minerals.
Furthermore, we engage with the leading Dutch labor
union (FNV) and a number of NGOs, including Enough,
GoodElectronics, the Chinese Institute of Public and
Environmental Affairs, UNICEF, Amnesty International,
Greenpeace and Friends of the Earth, as well as a
variety of investors and analysts.
Our sustainability e-mail account
(philips.sustainability@philips.com) enables
stakeholders to share their issues, comments and
questions, also about this Annual Report, with the
sustainability team. The table below provides an
overview of the different stakeholder groups, examples
of those stakeholders and the topics discussed, used for
our materiality analysis.

Processes

–
–

European Works
Council
Local Works Councils
Individual employees

Regular meetings, quarterly Employee Survey, employee development process, quarterly update
webinars. For more information refer to Social performance, starting on page 38
Regular mail updates, team meetings, webinars

Customers

–
–
–

Hospitals
Retailers
Consumers

Joint (research) projects, business development, Lean value chain projects, strategic partnerships,
consumer panels, Net Promoter Scores, Philips Customer Care centers, Training centers, social media

Suppliers

–

Chinese suppliers in
the Supplier
Development
program
Randstad, HP

Supplier development activities (including topical training sessions), supplier forums, supplier website,
participation in industry working groups like COCIR and RBA. For more information refer to Supplier
indicators, starting on page 208 .

–
Governments,
municipalities,
etc.

–
–

European Union
Authorities in
Indonesia, Singapore

Topical meetings, research projects, policy and legislative developments, business development
Topical meetings, (multi-stakeholder) projects

NGOs

–

UNICEF, International
Red Cross
Friends of the Earth,
Greenpeace

Topical meetings, (multi-stakeholder) projects, joint (research) projects, innovation challenges,
renewables projects, social investment program and Philips Foundation

Mainstream investors
ESG investors

Webinars, roadshows, capital markets day, Investor relations and Sustainability accounts

–
Investors

196

addition to our own research, we make use of a variety
of sources, including the United Nations Environmental
Programme (UNEP), World Bank, World Economic
Forum, World Health Organization, and the World
Business Council for Sustainable Development
(WBCSD). Our work also involves tracking topics of
concern to governments, non-governmental
organizations (NGO), regulatory bodies, academia, and
following the resulting media coverage.

–
–

Annual Report 2018

Statements 11.3.1

Reporting standards
We have prepared this integrated annual report in line
with the International Integrated Reporting Council
(IIRC) Integrated Reporting framework and the EU Non
Financial Reporting decree (2014/95/EU). We have also
included a visualization of our value creation process.
For the sustainability information included in this
integrated annual report we followed the Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards-Option
Comprehensive. A detailed overview of the GRI
Comprehensive indicators can be found in the GRI
content index on our sustainability website. Next, we
developed additional company-specific indicators and
started to measure the impact we are having on society.
The information on definition, scope and measurement
can be found in this chapter.
We signed up to the United Nations Global Compact in
March 2007 to advance 10 universal principles in the
areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anticorruption. Our General Business Principles, Human
Rights, Sustainability and Environmental Policies, and
our Supplier Sustainability Declaration are the
cornerstones that enable us to live up to the standards
set by the Global Compact. This is closely monitored
and reported, as illustrated throughout this report,

which is also our annual Communication on Progress
(COP) submitted to the UN Global Compact Office.
At the World Economic Forum in January 2017 Philips
signed the Compact for Responsive and Responsible
Leadership. The Compact is an initiative to promote and
align the long-term sustainability of corporations and
the long-term goals of society, with an inclusive
approach for all stakeholders.
We also use this report to communicate on our progress
towards the relevant Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs), in particular SDG 3 (“Ensure healthy lives and
promote well-being for all at all ages”), SDG 12 (“Ensure
sustainable consumption and production patterns”) and
SDG 13 ("Take urgent action to combat climate change
and its impacts"). Please refer to Stakeholder
engagement, starting on page 206 for more details.
Material topics and our focus
We identify the environmental, social, and governance
topics which have the greatest impact on our business
and the greatest level of concern to stakeholders along
our value chain. Assessing these topics enables us to
prioritize and focus upon the most material topics and
effectively address these in our policies and programs.

Philips Group
Materiality matrix
2018

Annual Report 2018

197

Statements 11.3.1

Our materiality assessment is based on an ongoing trend analysis, media search, and stakeholder input. This year’s
materiality matrix, developed during Q4 2018, has been built using an evidence-based approach to materiality analysis
powered by Datamaran. By applying Datamaran’s automated sifting and analysis of millions of data points from publicly
available sources, including, corporate reports, mandatory regulations and voluntary initiatives, as well as news and social
media, we identified a list of topics that are material to our business. With this data-driven approach to materiality
analysis we have incorporated a wider range of data and stakeholders than was ever possible before and managed to get
an evidence-based perspective into regulatory, strategic and reputational risks and opportunities.
The business impact scores are based on Philips’ assessment. Our materiality assessment has been conducted in the
context of the GRI Sustainable Reporting Standards and the results have been reviewed and approved by the Philips
Sustainability Board. As macro-economic uncertainty increased, and attention for climate change increased, we noted a
number of aspects that changed in terms of materiality in the table below (compared to 2017),
Key material topics
Reference
Environmental
–

Climate change

–

Energy efficiency

–

Pollution

–

Circular Economy

–

Waste management

Boundaries
Message from the CEO, starting on page 3
Environmental performance, starting on page 43
Environmental statements, starting on page 212
Green Innovation, starting on page 45
Environmental performance, starting on page 43
Environmental statements, starting on page 212
Green Innovation, starting on page 45
Environmental performance, starting on page 43
Environmental statements, starting on page 212
Green Innovation
Environmental performance, starting on page 43
Supplier indicators, starting on page 208
Environmental performance, starting on page 43
Environmental statements, starting on page 212

Supply chain, operations, use phase

Supply chain, operations, use phase

Supply chain, operations, use phase

Supply chain, operations, use phase. disposal

Supply chain, operations, disposal

Reference
Societal

198

–

Access to (quality & affordable) care

–

Social inclusion and engagement

–

Employee wellbeing, Health & Safety

–

Human Rights and Responsible Supply
Chains

–

Fair and Inclusive workplace

Annual Report 2018

Boundaries
Message from the CEO, starting on page 3
About Diagnosis & Treatment businesses in 2018, starting on page 11
About Connected Care & Health Informatics businesses in 2018,
starting on page 12
Social performance, starting on page 38
Message from the CEO, starting on page 3
About Diagnosis & Treatment businesses in 2018, starting on page 11
About Connected Care & Health Informatics businesses in 2018,
starting on page 12
Message from the CEO, starting on page 3
Health and Safety, starting on page 42
Supplier indicators , starting on page 208
Social performance, starting on page 38
Sustainability statements, starting on page 196

Use phase

Supplier indicators, starting on page 208
Social statements
Supplier indicators, starting on page 208

Supply chain, operations

Supply chain, operations, use
phase

Supply chain, operations

Supply chain, operations

Statements 11.3.1

Reference
Governance

Boundaries

–

Business ethics and General Business
Principles

Compliance risks, starting on page 57
General Business Principles, starting on page 42

Supply chain, operations, use
phase

–

Product responsibility and safety

Supply chain, operations, use
phase

–

Competition and market access

–

Geopolitical events

–

Big data and Privacy

–

Innovation and research

–

Sustainable value creation

About Other, starting on page 16
Sustainability statements, starting on page 196
Compliance risks
Sustainability statements, starting on page 196
Social performance, starting on page 38
Our commitment to Quality, Regulatory Compliance and
Integrity, starting on page 19
Compliance risks, starting on page 57
About Diagnosis & Treatment businesses in 2018, starting on
page 11
Our commitment to Quality, Regulatory Compliance and
Integrity, starting on page 19
Operational risks, starting on page 55
About Personal Health businesses in 2018, starting on page 15
Human Rights, starting on page 42
Strategy and Businesses
Strategic risks
Human Rights, starting on page 42
Message from the CEO
Strategy and Businesses
Strategic risks

Programs and targets

baseline
year 2015

target
2020

2018 actual

Lives Improved
(including Signify)

2.0 billion

2.5 billion

2.24 billion

Circular revenues

7%

15%

12%

Green revenues

56%

70%

64%

Net operational
carbon footprint

757
Ktonnes

0 Ktonnes

436
Ktonnes

78%

90%

84%

1,419 kilos

50%
reduction

1,093 kilos

Hazardous
substances emissions
Total Recordable
Case (TRC) rate
Supplier
Sustainability

Supplier
Sustainability

Supply chain, operations

Supply chain, operations, use
phase

Supply chain, operations, use
phase, disposal

Supply chain, operations, use
phase

value chain. More details are provided in the relevant
sections in the Sustainability Statements.

Philips Group
Sustainability commitments
2018

Operational waste
recycling

Supply chain, operations, use
phase

0.39

0.29

0.28

33% RSL
compliant

85% RSL
compliant

85% RSL
compliant

300
213
New
companies
companies
development
in
in
program
development development
tested
program
program

With the 5-year ‘Healthy people, Sustainable planet’
program, new sustainability commitments were
introduced; more detailed targets can be found in the
respective sections.
All of our programs are guided by the Philips General
Business Principles, which provide the framework for all
of our business decisions and actions.
Boundaries of sustainability reporting
Our sustainability performance reporting encompasses
the consolidated Philips Group activities in the Social
and Environmental Performance sections, following the
consolidation criteria detailed in this section. As a result
of impact assessments of our value chain we have
identified the material topics, determined their relative
impact in the value chain (supply chain, our own
operations, and use phase of our products) and
reported for each topic on the relevant parts of the

The consolidated selected financial information in this
Sustainability statements section has been derived from
the Group Financial Statements, which are based on
IFRS.
Comparability and completeness
We used expert opinions and estimates for some parts
of the Key Performance Indicator calculations. There is
therefore an inherent uncertainty in our calculations,
e.g. Lives Improved, Environmental Profit and Loss
account and Social Impact calculations. The figures
reported are Philips’ best estimate. As our insight
increases, we may enhance the methodology in the
future.
Until 2016, Philips reported on Green Product sales. Due
to the change in our businesses, we changed this in
2016 to Green Revenues, which includes products and
solutions (refer to the definition in 12.1.8). Revenues for
2014 and 2015 have been restated to reflect this change.
In 2018 the emission factor set for consumed electricity
was updated to the International Energy Agency (IEA)
2018 v1.00 publications. For our market-based scope 2
calculations in Europe and the US, IEA and eGrid
residual-mix emission factors were used as prescribed
in the Greenhouse Gas
The emissions of substances data is based on
measurements and estimates at manufacturing site
level. The figures reported are Philips’ best estimate.
The integration of newly acquired activities is scheduled
according to a defined integration timetable (in
principle, the first full reporting year after the year of
acquisition) and subject to the integration agenda. Data
for activities that are divested during the reporting year
are not included in full-year reporting. Environmental

Annual Report 2018

199

Statements 11.3.1

data are reported for manufacturing sites with more
than 50 industrial employees.
We have excluded Signify data from the consolidated
sustainability data, except for Lives Improved.
Scope
Lives improved and materials
The Key Performance Indicators on ‘lives improved’ and
‘materials’ and the scope are defined in the respective
methodology documents that can be found at
Methodology for calculating Lives Improved. We used
opinions from Philips experts and estimates for some
parts of the Lives Improved calculations.
Health and safety
Health and safety data is reported by sites with over 50
FTEs (full-time equivalents) and is voluntary for smaller
locations. Health and safety data are reported and
validated each month via an online centralized IT tool.
The Total Recordable Cases (TRC) rate is defined as a
KPI for work-related cases where the injured employee
is unable to work one or more days, or had medical
treatment or sustained an industrial illness. We also
provide the Lost Workday Injury Cases (LWIC) rate,
which measures work-related injuries and illnesses that
predominantly occur in manufacturing operations and
Field Services Organizations where the incident leads to
at least one lost workday. Fatalities are reported for
staff, contractors and visitors. The TRC and LWIC KPIs
refer to all reported cases.
General Business Principles
Alleged GBP violations are registered in our intranetbased reporting and validation tool.
Environmental data
All environmental data from manufacturing operations,
except process chemicals, are reported on a quarterly
basis in our sustainability reporting and validation tool,
according to company guidelines that include
definitions, procedures and calculation methods.
Process chemicals are reported on a half-yearly basis.
In 2018, the environmental data of Spectranetics was
not included.
Internal validation processes have been implemented
and peer audits performed to ensure consistent data
quality and to assess the robustness of data reporting
systems.
These environmental data from manufacturing are
tracked and reported to measure progress against our
Sustainable Operations targets.
Reporting on ISO 14001 certification is based on
manufacturing units reporting in the sustainability
reporting system.
Environmental Profit & Loss account
The Philips Environmental Profit & Loss (EP&L) account
measures our environmental impact on society at large.
The EP&L account is based on Life Cycle Analysis
200

Annual Report 2018

methodology in which the environmental impacts are
expressed in monetary terms using specific conversion
factors. For more information we refer to our
methodology report .
Operational carbon footprint
Philips reports in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol
(GHGP). The GHGP distinguishes three scopes, as
described below. The GHGP requires businesses to
report on the first two scopes to comply with the GHGP
reporting standards. As per the updated GHGP Scope 2
reporting guidance, from 2015 onward our scope 2
emissions reporting includes both the market-based
method and the location-based method. The marketbased method of reporting will serve as our reference
for calculating our total operational carbon footprint.
• Scope 1 – direct CO2e emissions – is reported on in
full, with details of direct emissions from our
industrial and non-industrial sites. Emissions from
industrial sites, which consist of direct emissions
resulting from processes and fossil fuel combustion
on site, are reported in the sustainability reporting
system. Energy use and CO2e emissions from nonindustrial sites are based on actual data where
available. If this is not the case, they are estimated
based on average energy usage per square meter,
taking the geographical location and building type of
the site into account.
• Scope 2 – indirect CO2e emissions – is reported on
in full, with details of indirect emissions from our
industrial and non-industrial sites. CO2e emissions
resulting from purchased electricity, steam, heat and
other indirect sources are reported in the
sustainability reporting system. The indirect
emissions of sites not yet reporting are calculated in
the same manner as described in Scope 1.
◦ The location-based method of scope 2 reporting
reflects the average emissions intensity of grids
on which energy consumption occurs (using
mostly grid-average emission factor data). For
this method our emission factors derive from the
International Energy Agency (IEA) 2016 and are
based on grid averages.
◦ The market-based method of scope 2 reporting
allows use of an emission factor that is specific to
the energy purchased. The emissions intensity of
consumed energy can differ according to the
contractual instruments used. For example, socalled ‘green electricity contracts’ guarantee the
purchaser will be supplied with electricity from
renewable sources, which typically lowers
emissions per energy unit generated. In the
market-based method Philips will account for
renewable electricity with an emission factor of 0
grams CO2e per kWh. All renewable electricity
claimed by Philips is sourced from the same
energy market where the electricity-consuming
operations are located, and is tracked and
redeemed, retired, or cancelled solely on behalf
of Philips. All certificates were obtained through
procurement of Green-e certified Renewable

Statements 11.3.2

Energy Certificates (RECs) in the United States
and European Guarantees of Origin (GOs) from
the Association of Issuing Bodies (AIB) of the
European Energy Certificate System (EECS). To
ensure the additionality, all certificates were
produced in 2018 and a maximum of 6 months
prior in the country of consumption and are
retired on behalf Royal Philips.
• Scope 3 – other CO2e emissions related to activities
not owned or controlled by Royal Philips – is
reported on for our business travel and distribution
activities.
The Philips operational carbon footprint (Scope 1, 2 and
3) is calculated on a quarterly basis and includes the
emissions from our:
• industrial sites – manufacturing and assembly sites
• non-industrial sites – offices, warehouses, IT centers
and R&D facilities
• business travel – lease and rental cars and airplane
travel
• logistics – air, ocean and road transport
All emission factors used to transform input data (for
example, amount of tonne-kilometers transported) into
CO2 emissions have been updated to the DEFRA (UK
Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs) 2017
and the IEA emission factor set 2016. The total CO2
emission resulting from these calculations serves as
input for scope 1, 2 and 3.
Commuting by our employees, upstream distribution
(before suppliers ship to us), outsourced activities and
emissions resulting from product use by our customers
are not included in our operational carbon footprint.
The calculations for business travel by lease car are
based on actual fuel usage, and for travel by rental car
the emissions are based on the actual mileage. Taxis
and chauffeur-driven cars used for business travel are
not included in the calculations. Emissions from
business travel by airplane are calculated by the
supplier based on mileage flown and emission factors
from DEFRA, distinguishing between short, medium and
long-haul flights. Furthermore, emissions from air freight
for distribution are calculated based on the amount of
tonne-kilometers transported between airports
(distinguishing between short, medium and long-haul
flights), including an estimate (based on actual data of
the lanes with the largest volumes) for trucking from
sites and distribution centers to airports and vice versa.
Express shipments are generally a mix of road and air
transport, depending on the distance.
It is therefore assumed that shipments across less than
600 km are transported by road and the rest by air
(those emissions by air are calculated in the same way
as air freight). For sea transport, only data on
transported volume were available, so an estimate had
to be made about the average weight of a container.
Transportation to and from ports is not registered. This
fore and aft part of sea transport was estimated to be
around 3% of the total distance (based on actual data

of the lanes with the largest volumes), consisting of a
mix of modalities, and was added to the total emissions
accordingly. CO2e emissions from road transport were
also calculated based on tonne-kilometers. Return
travel of vehicles is not included in the data for sea and
road distribution.
Employee Engagement Index (EEI)
The Employee Engagement Index (EEI) is the single
measure of the overall level of employee engagement
at Philips. It is a combination of perceptions and
attitudes related to employee satisfaction, commitment
and advocacy.
The reported figures are based on the Employee Survey.
The total score of the employee engagement is an
average of the quarterly results of the survey. The
results are calculated by taking the average of the
answered questions of the surveys.
Sustainability governance
Sustainability is strongly embedded in our core
business processes, like innovation (EcoDesign),
sourcing (Supplier Sustainability Program),
manufacturing (Sustainable Operations), logistics
(Green Logistics) and projects like the Circular Economy
initiative.
In Royal Philips, the Sustainability Board is the highest
governing sustainability body and is chaired by the
Chief Strategy & Innovation Officer, who is a member of
the Executive Committee. Three other Executive
Committee members, our Chief Operating Officer, our
Chief Legal Officer and our Chief Human Resources
Officer, sit on the Sustainability Board together with
segment and functional executives. The Sustainability
Board convenes four times per year, defines Philips’
sustainability strategy, programs and policies, monitors
progress and takes corrective action where needed.
Progress on Sustainability is communicated internally
and externally (www.results.philips.com) on a quarterly
basis and at least annually in the Executive Committee
and Supervisory Board.
External assurance
EY has provided reasonable assurance on whether the
information in Sustainability statements, starting on
page 196 and Social performance, starting on page 38
and Environmental performance, starting on page 43
presents fairly, in all material respects, the sustainability
performance in accordance with the reporting criteria.
Please refer to Assurance report of the independent
auditor, starting on page 218

11.3.2 Economic indicators
This section provides summarized information on
contributions made on an accruals basis to the most
important economic stakeholders as a basis for driving
economic growth. For a full understanding of each of
these indicators, see the specific financial statements
and notes in this report.

Annual Report 2018

201

Statements 11.3.3

Philips Group
Distribution of direct economic benefits in millions of EUR
2016 - 2018

training through Philips University in 2018, with 549,959
training completions.

2016

2017

2018

Suppliers: goods and services

9,484

9,600

9,568

Employees: salaries and wages

4,422

4,856

4,849

Shareholders: distribution from
retained earnings

732

742

738

Government: corporate income
taxes

203

349

193

Capital providers: net interest

299

182

157

Total purchased goods and services as included in cost
of sales amounted to EUR 9.6 billion, representing 53%
of total revenues of the Philips Group. Of this amount,
approximately 53% was spent with global suppliers, the
remainder with local suppliers.
In 2018, salaries and wages totaled EUR 4.8 billion,
comparable to 2017. See Income from operations,
starting on page 135 for more information.
Philips’ shareholders were given EUR 738 million in the
form of a dividend, the cash portion of which amounted
to EUR 401 million.
Income taxes amounted to EUR 193 million, compared
to EUR 349 million in 2017. The effective income tax rate
in 2018 was 12.8%, compared to 25.3% in 2017. This
decrease was mainly due to one-time non-cash
benefits from tax audit resolutions and business
integrations. For more information, see Income taxes,
starting on page 138.
Philips supports global initiatives of the OECD
(Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development) and UN (United Nations) to promote tax
transparency and responsible tax management, taking
into account the interests of various stakeholders, such
as governments, shareholders, customers and the
communities in which Philips operates. For more
information, please refer to Philips’ Tax Principles.

11.3.3 Social statements
In 2016, Royal Philips launched its next 5-year
sustainability program, 'Healthy people, Sustainable
planet'. This section provides additional information on
(some of) the Social performance parameters reported
in Social performance, starting on page 38
People development
Philips is on a multi-year journey to focus on
experience-based career development, giving our
people the opportunity to identify and gain the
experiences necessary to support our health
technology strategy and strengthen their employability.
In 2018 we continued taking experimental learning to a
new level across our 70:20:10 approach.
At the end of 2018 the number of active trainings had
increased to 3,612, and 1,248 new courses were made
available by Philips University. By year-end, some
73,807 active users had enrolled for courses with Philips
University. In total, some 700,000 hours were spent on

202

Annual Report 2018

70% Critical career experiences
We support our people in navigating their own career
and stimulate and educate our managers to have
meaningful career dialogues with their people. To that
end, we continue to fine-tune our Experience Maps,
which describe the experiences people can gain to
prepare for, or develop in, strategic roles. These maps
are a tool for employees and managers to use during
development dialogues and for employees to explore
when thinking about career steps, to help them
understand how to gain the experiences required to be
ready for their next career step. By identifying the roles
and experiences critical to our business strategy, we
clarify development areas and transferable skills in
support of cross-functional, lateral, traditional, as well
as non-traditional career opportunities.
We have integrated the Experience Maps into our talent
development approach, helping our people to plan and
manage their careers. We also build awareness of
experience-based careers through communications,
prioritizing strategic roles and capabilities that directly
support our health technology strategy.
We continue to stimulate cross-moves (across
businesses, between markets or functions) to promote
collaboration and give people challenging learning
experiences.
20% Coaching and mentoring
In 2018, all leadership programs in Philips University
included a coaching and/or mentoring element. In
Shifting Gears (Executive Leadership Program)
participants are coached by an executive coach and
mentored by an Executive Committee member as part
of their application projects. In Leading Adaptively
(Senior Leadership Program) participants are coached
by an executive coach, as well as a peer coaching group
and an accountability partner.
Two other Senior Leadership Programs, Leading Teams
and License to Lead, have built coaching and mentoring
capability through leaders learning how to do this most
effectively and practicing with each other and their
teams. In 2019 we will drive the coaching and mentoring
culture of our leaders through the following leadership
programs:
•
•
•
•

Leading Teams
Leading People
Leading Adaptively
Shifting Gears

The Women in Action program will also be introduced,
with female leaders becoming and seeking out coaches
and mentors within the organization.
10% Learning programs
In 2018, Philips University implemented the envisioned
organizational design. By further optimizing the set-up
of the organization and the way learning is created and

Statements 11.3.3

offered at Philips, Philips University continued to deliver
upon its mission of a lifetime of learning in Philips. By
mirroring learning requests to company-wide strategic
priorities and introducing smarter ways of working and
supporting processes, we commit to deliver learning
solutions that truly impact our people and Philips as a
whole. In 2018 we invested in preparing an improved
customer experience via a new design of our Learning
Management system that will be launched in 2019. We
also implemented a full metrics dashboard to enable us
to measure the development cost of our learning.
Talent attraction
In 2018 we made over 14,450 new hires, with 23% of
those roles filled by internal candidates. Our
transformation-driven shift to align focused delivery
models and strategies to the hardest-to-fill talent
segments generated positive results. For example, we
successfully hired over 1,500 R&D and Software
Engineering professionals from the external labor
market, with 20% identified as coming from ‘High Value
Target’ companies – those known to be best-in-class
for the particular skill set.
Continuing the trend from previous years, we continued
to strengthen our in-house talent acquisition
capabilities at Executive level, delivering a cost saving of
EUR 4.4 million in 2018.
We continued to invest in strategic Employer Brand and
Recruitment Marketing initiatives, as an enabler of our
organizational People strategy and commitment to
winning top talent in challenging labor market
conditions. In addition to ongoing critical segment
marketing campaigns and always-on brand
management across key career-related channels, the
following initiatives supported enterprise-level progress
in 2018:
• Attraction of female leaders: A targeted Employer
Value Proposition (EVP) and global campaign, Lead
Your Way, was launched in five major geographies,
supporting our commitment to reach 25% female
representation in leadership roles by 2020. The
campaign generated over 16,000 career web page
views, and advanced over 1,000 senior women
profiles into our talent pipelines.
• Workforce of the Future: This year we expanded our
passive talent attraction focus into the contingent/
freelancer segment to help manage workforce
demand in today’s ‘gig economy’. We developed and
activated an Assignment Value Proposition (AVP)
across target sourcing channels for this population.
As a result, Philips’ Freelance platform database, an
on-demand talent source for project work, grew by
98%.
• Candidate experience: Continuously listening to the
market and improving the experience we deliver to
recruitment candidates remains a priority, as market
conditions remain in favor of talent and our brand
value continues to be a strategic focus. In 2018 we
delivered mandatory ‘candidate experience’ training
for all recruiters, executed a new candidate-centric
content marketing strategy, and launched 24

Artificial Intelligence (AI)-driven career websites
globally. More than 1.6 million unique talent profiles
enjoyed a more personalized Philips career website
experience in 2018.
Philips was recognized for its innovative talent practices
in winning awards through programs led by Employer
Brand Management Association (EBMA), Intermediair
Research, In-House Recruitment Awards,
Glassdoor.com, Tokyo Labor Bureau, and Randstad.
Employee volunteering
Our mission to improve lives through meaningful
innovation is a key attractor for people to join Philips,
and we connect our employee efforts directly to our
brand promise as a leading health technology company
to #Makelifebetter.
In 2018, Philips Foundation and Royal Philips
collaborated to launch an employee team-volunteering
program to leverage the capabilities of over 74,000
employees towards one global access-to-care goal per
year. The Volunteering Program allows Philips
employees to spend one paid day per year on
volunteer work and to use their time and expertise to
create impact.
To give just a few examples:
• Over 5,000 employees participated in American
Heart Association Heart Walks, CPR programs and
heart health initiatives.
• On October 18 every Philips office in Africa (Egypt,
Morocco, Ghana, Nigeria, Kenya and South Africa)
dedicated their time to give back and connect with
local communities around childhood pneumonia,
visiting hospitals, educating parents, screening
children with the CHARM device and training
community health workers.
• Nearly 500 employees in the Benelux dedicated
their time to successful volunteering initiatives
named ‘Hartwarmers December’ and ‘Pro Bono Lab
Communication’.
• A total of EUR 150,000 was donated to five NGO
impact projects, helping improve over 260,000 lives
in vulnerable communities around the world.
In 2019 the Volunteering program will continue
employee volunteering and fundraising efforts around
the theme of childhood pneumonia, to create
measurable and sustainable impact. Childhood
pneumonia is the number one cause of childhood
mortality globally. Every minute, two children under the
age of 5 die from pneumonia. However, pneumonia is a
communicable disease that can be easily prevented,
diagnosed and treated with the appropriate and
affordable commodities.
Building employability
At Philips, our vision to offer the best place to work for
people who share our passion is not limited to our
employees. In a number of our geographies, we support
social initiatives to increase employability. This year we
are highlighting a UK example, where we have been
Annual Report 2018

203

Statements 11.3.3

working with 'the halow project', which nurtures the
independence of individuals with learning disabilities.
The Philips Foundation
Philips Foundation is a registered charity established in
2014. The Foundation supports the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals 3 ("Ensure healthy lives
and promote well-being for all at all ages") and 17
("Revitalize the global partnership for sustainable
development"). In 2018, Royal Philips supported Philips
Foundation with a contribution of EUR 6.7 million, and
provided the operating staff as well as the expert
assistance of skilled employees in the execution of the
Foundation’s programs.

(2017: 49%), while the concerns reported in Latin
America increased to 14% of the total number,
compared with 10% in 2017. The number of reports in
the Asia-Pacific region (APAC region) and in Europe,
Middle East & Africa (EMEA region) remained stable,
accounting for 21% and 20% of the total number of
complaints respectively in 2018 (2017: 20% and 21%).
Philips Group
Breakdown of reported GBP concerns in number of reports
2015 - 2018
Health & Safety
Treatment of employees
- Collective bargaining

By the end of 2018, over 150 Philips Foundation projects
were in progress or completed throughout the world,
engaging employees and connecting with patients and
underserved communities on healthcare. A total of 31
new projects were approved in 2018 in local markets
worldwide, spanning many phases of the health
continuum: from education on healthy living and
prevention to diagnosis and treatment. Philips
Foundation supported projects with local nongovernmental organizations, across 23 countries,
working with Philips employees to improve healthcare
access and availability for vulnerable communities.
For more information about Philips Foundation, its
purpose and scope, as well as its latest annual report,
visit the website.
General Business Principles
In 2018, a total of 438 concerns were reported via the
Philips Ethics Line and through our network of GBP
Compliance Officers, an increase of 14% year-on-year
(2017: 382 concerns).
This is a continuation of the upward trend reported
since 2014, the year when Philips updated its General
Business Principles and deployed a strengthened global
communication campaign. We believe this trend
remains in line with our multi-year efforts to encourage
our employees to speak up, in combination with a
growing number of employees.
When looking at absolute numbers, the increase in
reports is reflected in all four regions. North America
accounts for 45% of the total number of complaints

204

Annual Report 2018

2016

2017

8

9

11

2018
11

166

179

211

254

-

-

-

-

32

51

59

63

- Employee development

2

12

12

8

- Employee privacy

6

2

1

6

- Equal and fair treatment

Philips Foundation’s mission is to reduce healthcare
inequality by providing access to quality healthcare for
disadvantaged communities. It does this through the
provision and application of Philips’ healthcare
expertise, innovation power, talent and resources and
by financial support. Together with key partners around
the globe (including respected NGOs such as UNICEF,
Amref and ICRC), Philips Foundation seeks to identify
challenges where a combination of Philips expertise
and partner experience can be used to create
meaningful solutions that have an impact on people’s
lives.

2015

- Employee relations

-

16

32

24

83

62

77

103

- Remuneration

4

5

8

11

- Right to organize

-

-

-

-

- Working hours

1

2

9

12

- Respectful treatment

38

29

13

27

Legal

- HR other

19

27

36

59

Business Integrity

89

97

104

96

Supply management

3

10

6

6

IT

2

8

6

4

Other

8

9

8

8

Total

295

339

382

438

Most common types of concerns reported
Treatment of employees
As in previous years, the type of concern most
commonly reported related to the category ‘Treatment
of employees’. In 2018 there were 254 reports in this
category, compared to 211 in 2017. This represents 58%
of the total number of concerns, which is again a slight
increase on 2017 (55%).
The majority of the concerns reported in the ‘Treatment
of employees’ category relate to ‘Respectful treatment’
and ‘Equal and fair treatment’ (41% and 25%
respectively). The ‘Respectful treatment’ sub-category
generally relates to concerns about verbal abuse,
(sexual) harassment, and hostile work environments.
‘Equal and fair treatment’ primarily relates to concerns
about favoritism, discrimination and unfair treatment in
the workplace. In the ‘Treatment of employees’
category, 56% of cases originated from North America,
which is less than in 2017 (64%).
Business integrity
The second most-reported type of concern relates to
‘Business Integrity’, which accounted for 22% of total
cases reported in 2018, down from 27% in 2017. These
concerns originated primarily from the APAC region
(47%), followed by EMEA (24%), North America (18%)
and Latin America (11%).

Statements 11.3.3

Philips Group
Classification of the new concerns investigated in number of reports
2016 - 2018
2016
Category

2017

2018

substantiated

unsubstantiated

substantiated

unsubstantiated

substantiated

unsubstantiated

1

1

6

3

3

5

45

103

44

126

55

138

4

13

8

16

16

24

18

42

28

38

26

32

Supply
Management

-

7

-

5

3

2

IT

1

1

2

4

2

1

Other

3

2

3

4

-

5

Total

72

169

91

196

105

207

Health & Safety
Treatment of
employees
Legal
Business Integrity

Substantiated/unsubstantiated concerns
Of the 438 cases reported in 2018, 126 are still pending
closure, the majority being those that were filed in the
last quarter of the year. The table above gives an
overview of the number of reported concerns that were
substantiated (i.e. were found to constitute a breach of
our General Business Principles) by the subsequent
investigation.
Of the 312 reports closed in 2018 (288 in 2017), 105 were
substantiated, which represents 34% of the total
number reported and closed (32% in 2017). This is also
shown in the table above. In 2018, 28% of the
‘Treatment of employees’ cases were substantiated,
compared to 26% in 2017 (2016: 31%, 2015: 42%). In
addition, 45% of the ‘Business Integrity’ reports were
closed as substantiated in 2017, compared with 42% in
2017 (2016: 30%, 2015: 18%).
In addition to the above, 107 concerns that were still
open at the end of 2017 were closed during the course
of 2018. A total of 28 (26%) of these concerns were
substantiated after investigation.
Of the 133 closed concerns that were substantiated, 82
were followed up with disciplinary measures ranging
from termination of employment and written warnings
to training and coaching. In other cases, corrective
action was taken, which varied from strengthening the
business processes to increasing awareness of the
expected standard of business conduct.
Health and Safety performance
In 2018, we focused on six main areas of Health and
Safety (H&S):
Policy, Procedures and Management Systems: Under
the Philips H&S policy, 50 Philips Corporate Safety
Standards (PCSS) were completed and deployed by
December 2018. These standards provide guidance in a
simple, consistent Management System format and
specify the minimum H&S performance standards to be
upheld wherever Philips operates. In 2018, Philips set
itself the goal of certifying 36 manufacturing sites to the
new ISO 45001 standard by mid-2019. By December
2018 two sites had been certified and plans were in
place to certify the remaining sites.

Compliance: Philips consolidated its compliance
tracking process by partnering with external provider
ENHESA. This will enable the entire compliance
requirements of all Philips H&S activities to be tracked
in one tool and it will also allow local stand-alone
versions to be retired.
Training: Philips consolidated its H&S training
requirements into one tool provided by Underwriters
Ltd (UL) that is hosted by the Philips University. This
enabled over 450 training packages in 10 different
languages to be delivered both online and face to face.
These training requirements are linked to the PCSS
standards and approved by Philips H&S. This capability
will allow local stand-alone versions to be retired.
Structure and Responsibility: The H&S structure to
support the operational sites and the Field Service
organizations continued to be improved, with additional
focus on providing support to the evolving
manufacturing footprint. Additional support was
provided to several Markets including North America,
Latin America, France, Italy, Israel and Greece. As part of
this, a program to upskill H&S professionals was
implemented to provide better internal development
opportunities.
Internal Health and Safety Audit: Philips completed six
audits in 2018. Detailed, evidence-based audits are
driving greater verification to ensure that robust H&S
programs are in place. We have put in place a process
to train H&S leaders to become H&S auditors through a
program based on external certification and gaining
internal experience. This is linked to personal
development goals for H&S professionals.
Cultural Change: We continued to focus our efforts on a
proactive cultural transformation through BehaviorBased Safety (BBS). BBS requires a fundamental shift in
how we think about and act on Health and Safety
before an injury occurs. In 2018 the Philips BBS program
was deployed to a further six factories in China, Europe
and the USA, giving a total of 14 sites in 2018 (up from 8
sites in 2017). We increased the number of Behavioral
Observations to 1,820, representing a 63% increase on
2017. We believe this program will continue to drive
down our workplace injuries and will serve as a key
pillar for reaching our goal of a 25% reduction in total
injuries by 2020.

Annual Report 2018

205

Statements 11.3.3

Metrics: In 2018 we continued to deploy proactive
metrics to support the more traditional reactive metrics
(TRC and LWIC) and we completed over 15,314 Safety
Gemba Walks and 30,540 Safety Kaizen activities. This
approach was also designed to support cultural change
and drive safety in routine management activities.
In 2018, we recorded 198 TRCs (234 in 2017), i.e. cases
where the injured employee is unable to work for one or
more days, received medical treatment or sustained an
industrial illness.

the Connected Care & Health Informatics businesses
segment decreased to 11 in 2018 (20 in 2017), mainly
driven by our factories in North America.
Stakeholder engagement
Our engagement with various partners and
stakeholders is essential to our vision of making the
world healthier and sustainable through innovation.
Some of our partnership engagements are described
below.
Global partnerships

Philips Group
Total recordable cases per 100 FTE
2016-2018
2016

2017

2018

Personal Health

0.33

0.28

0.19

Diagnosis & Treatment

0.65

0.58

0.55

Connected Care & Health Informatics

0.67

0.60

0.30

Other

0.27

0.29

0.22

Philips Group

0.37

0.36

0.28

Additionally, we recorded 91 Lost Workday Injury Cases
(LWICs), i.e. occupational injury cases where the injured
person is unable to work for one or more days after the
injury. This represents a decrease compared with 113 in
2017. The LWIC rate decreased to 0.13 per 100 FTEs,
compared with 0.17 in 2017. The number of Lost
Workdays caused by injury increased by 480 days (12%)
to 4,650 days in 2018.
Philips Group
Lost workday injuries per 100 FTEs
2014 - 2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Personal Health

0.16

0.16

0.15

0.17

0.11

Diagnosis &
Treatment

0.27

0.20

0.36

0.27

0.20

Connected Care &
Health Informatics

0.18

0.16

0.15

0.15

0.16

Other

0.11

0.13

0.10

0.14

0.11

Philips Group

0.15

0.15

0.16

0.17

0.13

Personal Health businesses
The Personal Health businesses segment showed an
improvement in performance in Health and Safety, with
16 LWICs in 2018, compared to 24 in 2017. The LWIC rate
decreased from 0.17 in 2017 to 0.11 in 2018. In the
Personal Health businesses segment there were 29
recordable cases in 2018 (38 in 2017). This decrease was
mainly due to fewer cases in our factories in Asia.
Diagnosis & Treatment businesses
In the Diagnosis & Treatment businesses segment,
Health and Safety showed a mixed result in 2018, with
26 LWICs compared to 33 in 2017. The LWIC rate
decreased to 0.20 compared to 0.27 in 2017. The total
number of recordable cases for the Diagnosis &
Treatment businesses segment was 72 (70 in 2017).
Connected Care & Health Informatics businesses
Health and Safety performance in the Connected Care
& Health Informatics businesses segment remained
fairly stable in 2018: 6 LWICs (5 in 2017).
Correspondingly, the LWIC rate increased from 0.15 to
0.16 in 2018. The total number of recordable cases for
206

Annual Report 2018

World Economic Forum
Philips is proud to continue as a strategic partner of the
World Economic Forum (WEF), the International
Organization for Public-Private Cooperation committed
to improving the state of the world. The Forum engages
political, business and other leaders to help shape
global, regional and industry agendas. In 2018, Philips
was an active contributor to WEF programs on valuebased care, non-communicable diseases, Universal
Health Coverage and digital identity.
We also supported the acceleration of the Compact for
Responsive and Responsible Leadership, by co-hosting
the International Conference on the Dynamics of
Inclusive Prosperity with WEF and Erasmus University
Rotterdam. This event brought together leaders from
the worlds of business, government, NGOs and
academia to discuss the transition towards more
responsive and responsible leadership.
In addition, our CEO, Frans van Houten, co-chairs the
WEF Platform for Accelerating the Circular Economy
(PACE) – a collaborative effort between the public and
private sectors to scale up the adoption and
implementation of circular business models. Philips
remains committed to take back all large medical
systems equipment that becomes available to us by
2020, and to extend circular practices to all medical
equipment by 2025.
Future Health Index
Now in its fourth year, the Future Health Index (FHI) –
Philips’ flagship research-based platform – continues to
explore how countries can overcome global health
challenges and build sustainable, fit-for-purpose
national health systems. In 2016, the FHI measured
perceptions to produce a snapshot of how healthcare is
experienced on both sides of the patient-professional
divide, while in 2017 it compared these perceptions to
the reality of healthcare delivery systems in each
country researched.
The 2018 Future health Index builds on the increasing
consensus that value-based care is the best model for
addressing global healthcare challenges, and explores
the main barriers to the large-scale adoption of valuebased care to support healthcare system
transformation. With the support of key healthcare
opinion leaders, three FHI reports were released over
the course of the year, addressing how value can be
best measured and assessed in a national health

Statements 11.3.3

system; how data collection and analysis can drive
better healthcare outcomes; and how telehealth
technologies can enable better health experiences for
patients and healthcare professionals.
Working on global issues
Sustainable Development Goals
Our work is aligned with three of the United Nations’
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) – Health and
well-being for all (SDG 3), Sustainable consumption and
production (SDG 12), and Climate action (SDG 13), and
we have committed to having 95% of our revenue linked
to the UN SDGs by 2020. In 2018 we supported a
number of important SDG programs including NonCommunicable Diseases, Universal Health Coverage,
Sustainable Consumption and Production, and Climate
Change.
SDG3
Universal Health Coverage – We published a special
report, ‘Taking Action’, which pulls in key
recommendations for the private sector in helping to
advance Universal Health Coverage (UHC). During the
World Bank Spring Meetings in Washington DC we
hosted a gathering of ministers and key opinion leaders
in healthcare to discuss how to transform health
systems in emerging markets, scaling successful
business models to achieve UHC.
In September, we signed a memorandum of
understanding with the United Nations Population Fund
(UNFPA) to jointly develop programs aimed at
improving the lives of 50 million women and girls by
2025 in countries where health challenges are most
acute. As a first step in the cooperation, developed in
close collaboration with the Republic of Congo’s
Ministry of Health and all relevant stakeholders, Philips
intends to implement a large-scale program in the
Republic of Congo, aimed at improving the delivery of
maternal and newborn healthcare at all levels.
Our CEO, Frans van Houten, co-signed an open letter
on the need for investment in human capital – the
knowledge, skills, and health that people accumulate
throughout their lives. This coincided with the launch of
the World Bank Group’s Human Capital Index – a
simple but effective metric for human capital outcomes
such as child survival, student learning, and adult
health.
Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs)
The 73rd United Nations General Assembly in
September 2018 staged the third High-level Meeting on
the prevention and control of NCDs, which reviewed
global and national progress in putting measures in
place that protect people from dying too young from
heart and lung diseases, cancers and diabetes.
We partnered with DEVEX, the Asian Development
Band, the NCD Alliance, Novartis and NovoNordisk in
starting an online conversation to analyze the impact of
NCDs in low- and middle-income countries. We
discussed with a dozen key opinion leaders and polled

feedback from more than 1,200 health professionals to
gain insights on early detection and diagnosis as a
critical link for effective NCD management. The research
recommendations include strengthening capacity in
primary care systems, educating and empowering
community-level health workers, and designing and
implementing efficient policies and solutions. We
discussed the findings of the research as well as how
NCDs affect the global agenda to achieve universal
health coverage in a high-level panel discussion in
collaboration with DEVEX and the World Economic
Forum as a side event to the Sustainable Development
Impact Summit.
Health & Healthcare in Europe
With the European Commission’s Communication on
Artificial Intelligence and the political declaration of
willingness for a coordinated AI plan for Europe, Philips
and POLITICO organized an expert panel discussion
covering the views of the European Commission,
hospitals, think tanks and start-ups on the potential of
AI to support the digital transformation of healthcare.
Additionally, Philips and POLITICO hosted a debate on
The Future of Health in Europe with Members of the
European Parliament, European policy-makers, medical
professionals, patients, and health innovators.
SDG 12
PACE
Our CEO, Frans van Houten, co-chairs the WEF
Platform for Accelerating the Circular Economy (PACE)
– a collaborative effort between the public and private
sectors to scale up the adoption and implementation of
circular business models.
SDG 13
Philips has committed to become carbon-neutral in its
operations by 2020 and made good progress on this in
2018. The company’s Sustainability program and targets
were evaluated and approved by the Science Based
Targets initiative, making Philips the first health
technology company to achieve this.
Improving access to care
Philips continued on its journey towards improving
access to care in developing countries, especially in
Africa. We have extended our pledge to improve the
lives of 300 million people a year in underserved
healthcare communities by 2025, with a specific focus
on women and children. The needs of women and
children are critical and at the heart of the need to
achieve Universal Health Coverage.
The modular Community Life Center (CLC) solution for
radical improvement of primary care was further
optimized and prepared for large-scale deployment. In
the course of 2017, CLCs were inaugurated in Kenya,
South Africa and the Democratic Republic of Congo. A
further two CLCs were opened in South Africa in 2018.
Philips was the first private sector company to provide
support to the Sustainable Development Goals 3
window of the newly created SDG Partnership Platform
Annual Report 2018

207

Statements 11.3.3

Kenya, an initiative of the UN, the Government of Kenya
and the private sector. The SDG 3 window of the
platform aims to ‘Demonstrate the power of publicprivate collaboration to transform primary healthcare,
and attain Universal Health Coverage by 2021, in
support of the broader attainment of the Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs), improving health & wellbeing of 46 million Kenyans’. Through co-creations with
county governments, Philips will engage in large-scale
public private partnerships for improving primary care.
Philips and global healthcare leaders develop
innovative resuscitation device to help reduce
neonatal mortality
We successfully developed the Augmented Infant
Resuscitator (AIR) to help caregivers effectively
resuscitate asphyxiated newborn babies. Developed in
collaboration with the Consortium for Affordable
Medical Technologies (CAMTech) at Massachusetts
General Hospital Global Health, the Philips Augmented
Infant Resuscitator aims to reduce neonatal mortality,
especially in parts of the world that are underserved in
terms of healthcare. It is expected to be available in
limited volume in selected markets prior to scaling up
availability in low- and middle-income countries.
Supplier indicators
Philips’ mission to improve people’s lives extends
throughout our value chain. At Philips, we have a direct
business relationship with approximately 4,900 product
and component suppliers and 19,000 service providers.
Our supply chain sustainability strategy is updated
annually through a structured process, combined with
dedicated biennial multi-stakeholder dialogs. From this,
we have developed multiple programs aimed at driving
sustainable improvement. These programs cover
compliance with our policies, improvement of our
suppliers’ sustainability performance, our approach
towards responsible sourcing of minerals, and our
circular procurement practices.
Supplier sustainability compliance
Two core policy documents form the basis of our
supplier sustainability compliance approach: the
Supplier Sustainability Declaration and the Regulated
Substances List.

208

Annual Report 2018

Supplier Sustainability Declaration (SSD)
The SSD sets out the standards and behaviors Philips
requires from its suppliers. The SSD is based on the
Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct,
in alignment with the UN Guiding Principles on Business
and Human Rights and key international human rights
standards including the ILO Declaration on
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the UN
Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It covers topics
such as Labor, Health & Safety, Environment, Ethics,
and Management Systems.
Regulated Substances List (RSL)
The RSL specifies the chemical substances regulated by
legislation. Suppliers are required to follow all the
requirements stated in the RSL. Substances are marked
as restricted or declarable.
All suppliers are required to commit to the SSD and RSL.
Through integration of a Sustainability Agreement (SA)
in our General Purchase Agreement, suppliers declare
compliance to both the SSD and RSL. Upon request,
they provide additional information and evidence.
Supplier Sustainability Performance (SSP) - 'Beyond
Auditing'
In 2016, Philips moved away from its traditional
approach to audit suppliers, which it had implemented
since 2004. Insights from data analysis showed this old
approach was insufficient to drive sustainable
improvements. Our SSP approach, first piloted in 2016,
focuses on:
• a systematic approach to improve the sustainability
of our supply chain
• continuous improvement against a set of recognized
and global references
• collaboration, increased transparency, clear
commitments, and ensuring suppliers meet the
agreed targets
• encouraging our suppliers, industry peers and crossindustry peers to adopt our approach

Statements 11.3.3

This systematic approach is shown in the figure below and is a high-level representation of the SSP program.

First, a set of references, international standards, and
Philips requirements are used to develop the Frame of
Reference, which covers management systems,
environment, health & safety, business ethics and
human capital. For each, the maturity level of suppliers
is identified in the Program Execution Wheel, which
assesses suppliers against the Plan–Do–Check–Act
(PDCA) cycle. Suppliers are then categorized using a
Supplier Classification model, which differentiates on
the basis of supplier maturity, resulting in supplierspecific proposals for improvement. The SSP process is
monitored and adjusted through continuous feedback
loops. The outcome of the SSP assessment is a supplier
sustainability score ranging from 0 to 100. This score is
based on supplier performance in environmental
management, health & safety, business ethics, and
human capital.
Supplier classification
Four different categories are used to assign those
suppliers that are in scope after validation of the SAQ.
These four categories are BiC (Best in Class), SSIP
(Supplier Sustainability Improvement Plan), DIY (Do It
Yourself) and PZT (Potential Zero Tolerance). The PZT
status is a temporary status and requires immediate
attention and action. Depending on the categorization,
suppliers are engaged in different ways to improve their
sustainability performance.
If a (Potential) Zero Tolerance is identified, immediate
action is taken. If the requested additional information
and evidence lead to the conclusion that there is no
structural Zero Tolerance, the supplier’s status will be
changed and the supplier will go back to the original
track in the program. If the conclusion gives rise to a
structural Zero Tolerance, the supplier is required to:
• propose a plan to mitigate and/or resolve the
identified Zero Tolerance(s)
• commit to structurally resolving the Zero Tolerance
• provide regular updates and evidence
• avoid quick-fixing

Consistent with previous years, multiple Zero Tolerances
have been identified. Based on the results, we
concluded that our structural approach, open
communication, and focus on collaboration has
resulted in increased transparency. Consequently, these
Zero Tolerances were also mitigated in a structural
manner.
Philips defines six Zero Tolerances:
•
•
•
•
•

Fake or falsified records
Child and/or forced labor
Immediate threats to the environment
Immediate threats to worker health and safety
Failure to comply with regulatory and/or Philips
requirements
• Workers’ monthly income (covering salary for regular
hours and overtime, tax deductions, social
insurance) failing to meet regulatory requirements.
For more details on the SSP process, refer to the SSP
brochure.
The impact of the SSP program on supplier
performance
Philips measures the impact of the SSP engagement
through an improvement metric, which represents the
pro rata change in performance from one year to the
next. In 2018, the average year-on-year improvement is
25% for suppliers that entered the program in 2016 and
2017. The number of employees impacted at suppliers
participating in the SSP program was approximately
240,000.
In 2018, 52 suppliers were added to the SSP program.
Out of the population of suppliers that entered the
program in 2016 and 2017, 161 suppliers were still active
in 2018.

Annual Report 2018

209

Statements 11.3.3

Recognition by the Dutch Crystal Prize
In 2018, Philips received the Dutch ‘Crystal Prize’,
which focused this year on ‘Chain Transparency’.
Organized by the Dutch Ministry of Economic
Affairs in conjunction with the Netherlands
Institute of Chartered Accountants (NBA), the
award recognizes Philips for openness about its
supply chain responsibility, transparency
regarding its own impact, its cooperation with
other stakeholders, and evidence of supply chain
responsibility in its strategy and sustainability
programs. ‘Philips’ approach to Sustainable
Supply Chain Management is an inspiring
example for others’
Monika Milz, chair of the jury

Recognition by the Sustainable Purchasing
Leadership Council (SPLC)
The SPLC presented the ‘Leadership Award for
Supplier Engagement’ to Philips. The SPLC
convenes buyers, suppliers, and public interest
advocates to develop programs that simplify and
standardize sustainable purchasing efforts by
large organizations. Every year, the SPLC
recognizes global organizations for their
leadership in sustainable purchasing. In 2018, it
recognized Philips’ Supplier Sustainability
Performance program has driven exceptional
improvements in sustainable performance across
the company’s value chain. ‘The SSP approach
focuses on holistic sustainability performance
improvement and provides resources and training
on setting goals and providing honest and
accurate information’
~ Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council

Additional progress made in 2018
Apart from the inclusion of additional suppliers annually
into the award-winning SSP program, Philips is actively
working to make the program more efficient and
effective by forming a research consortium, together
with Eindhoven University of Technology and the
Jheronimus Academy of Data Science. The focus of this
consortium is on applying the latest insights in data
science and machine learning methods in order to make
the SSP program more efficient in determining the
sustainability maturity of suppliers, while also increasing
the effectiveness of our supplier improvement
approach.

210

Annual Report 2018

In addition, Philips has ramped up its cross-industry
engagement, advocating further adoption of the SSP
approach. The program design enables various codes of
conduct to be included. Through public speaking
engagements and 1-on-1 conversations with crossindustry peers, Philips is making the methodology
available to other companies that want to make a
sustainable impact in their supply chain.
Responsible Sourcing of Minerals
The supply chains for minerals are long and complex.
Philips does not source minerals directly from mines as
there are typically 7+ tiers between end-user
companies like Philips and the mines where the
minerals are extracted. The extraction of minerals can
take place in conflict-affected and high-risk regions,
where mining is often informal and unregulated and
carried out at artisanal small-scale mines (ASM). These
ASMs are vulnerable to exploitation by armed groups
and local traders. Within this context, there is an
increased risk of severe human rights violations (forced
labor, child labor or widespread sexual violence), unsafe
working conditions or environmental concerns.
Philips addresses the complexities of the minerals
supply chains through a continuous due diligence
process combined with multi-stakeholder initiatives to
promote the responsible sourcing of minerals.
Conflict minerals due diligence
Each year, Philips investigates its supply chain to
identify smelters of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold in
its supply chain and we have committed to not
purchasing raw materials, subassemblies, or supplies
found to contain conflict minerals.
Philips applies collective cross-industry leverage
through active engagement via the Responsible
Minerals Initiative (RMI, formerly known as the Conflict
Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI)). RMI identifies smelters
that can demonstrate through an independent thirdparty audit that the minerals they procure are conflictfree. In 2018, Philips continued to actively direct its
supply chain towards these smelters.
The Philips Conflict Minerals due diligence framework,
measures and outcomes are described in the Conflict
Minerals Report that we file annually to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Philips has
this report voluntarily audited by an independent third
party. The conflict minerals report is also publicly
available on Philips’ website.

Statements 11.3.3

Multi-stakeholder initiatives for responsible sourcing
of minerals
We believe that a multi-stakeholder collaboration in the
responsible sourcing of minerals is the most viable
approach for addressing the complexities of minerals
value chains.
European Partnership for Responsible Minerals
(EPRM)
Philips is a founding partner of EPRM and has been a
strategic member since its inception in May 2016. EPRM
is a multi-stakeholder partnership between
governments, companies, and civil society actors
working toward more sustainable minerals supply
chains. The goal of EPRM is to create better social and
economic conditions for mine workers and local mining
communities by increasing the number of mines that
adopt responsible mining practices in Conflict and High
Risk Areas (CAHRAs).
EPRM is an accompanying measure to the EU Conflict
Minerals Regulation dedicated to making real change
‘on the ground’. In 2018, Philips actively participated in a
working group that focused on making the on-theground projects financially and strategically effective.
From here, the call for new proposals was developed,
decisions on co-funding were made and criteria for
scale-up potential were created. From January 2019
onwards, Philips is also an active board member in
EPRM, representing the industrials pillar and serving to
advance the organization further.

IRBC Responsible Gold Agreement
In June 2017 Royal Philips signed the Responsible Gold
Agreement, joining a coalition to work on improving
international responsible business conduct across the
gold value chain. Signees include goldsmiths, jewelers,
recyclers, NGOs, electronics companies, trade unions,
and the Dutch government. This partnership intends to
bring about cooperation between companies,
government, trade unions, and NGOs to prevent abuses
within production chains.
From this partnership, Philips co-developed a project
with several other parties including civil society actors,
to facilitate sourcing of responsible gold from Uganda.
The project is aimed specifically at artisanal and smallscale mines (ASM) and works to establish a sustainable,
traceable gold supply chain with improved working
conditions for miners. The approach is designed to be
scaled up and serves as a potential blueprint for mines
in other regions.
Responsible Mica Initiative
Mica is commonly used in pearlescent pigments for
coatings and cosmetics. In the electronics sector, Mica is
also used as an electrical insulator. Mica extraction is
characterized by unsafe working conditions and is
typically carried out by miners on a low income with a
basic level of education. In order to support
improvement of the labor conditions at Mica mines,
Philips became an associate member of the
Responsible Mica Initiative (RMI) in 2016, a cross-sector
association that facilitates close collaboration between
various stakeholder groups.

Annual Report 2018

211

Statements 11.3.4

In addition, Philips initiated a multi-year program
together with Terre des Hommes and several other
organizations, aiming to drive systemic change at
several Mica mines in India. The program entails a
multi-pronged approach to improve the living
conditions of Mica miners and their families. The aim of
this project is to deliver on-the-ground education and
empowerment, while enabling fairer prices and access
to the market.
Circular Procurement
At Philips, we consider the transition from a linear to a
circular economy to be a necessary condition for a
sustainable world. Consequently, our 2020 target is to
generate 15% of revenues from circular products that are
optimized for parts harvesting, refurbishment, and
technical and economic lifetime extension. In our
operations, we effectively reduce, recycle and re-use
waste as much as possible, and we aim to send zero
waste to landfill by 2020.
Procurement plays a leading role in Philips’ transition
towards a circular economy as it enables our circular
design choices to be realized. In addition, it enables
buy-back of parts with a high residual value for
suppliers. Internally, Philips’ office environments
increasingly incorporate circularity, facilitating circular
business models for suppliers. Examples range from
recycled plastics in carpets to pay-per-print copy
machines, incentivizing manufacturers to increase ink
efficiency and the uptime of their machines.
For more information on our Circular Economy
initiatives, please refer to sub-section 13.4.1, Circular
Economy, of this Annual Report.
Carbon emissions in our supply chain
Since 2003, Philips has looked at ways to improve the
environmental performance of its suppliers. When it
comes to climate change, we have adopted a multipronged approach: reducing the environmental impacts
of our products, committing to carbon neutrality in our
own operations, and engaging with our supply chain to
reduce their carbon footprint. Through our partnership
with the CDP supply chain program, Philips motivates
its suppliers to disclose emissions, embed board
responsibility on climate change, and actively work on
reduction activities.
In 2011 we partnered with the CDP Supply Chain,
through which we invite suppliers to disclose their
environmental performance and carbon intensity. This
year, there was a response rate of 77% (2017: 69%).
From this group, 64% committed to carbon emission
targets and 80% indicated there is board-level
governance in place for climate change (2017: 58%). Our
suppliers undertook projects in 2018 that resulted in
savings on carbon emissions amounting to 40 million
metric tonnes CO2, of which 4% was attributed
specifically to our engagement.

212

Annual Report 2018

Environmental Footprint China
Philips proactively supports its Chinese suppliers in
reducing their environmental footprint whilst at the
same time contributing to Philips’ sustainability strategy.
Achievements in 2018
• Philips’ Supplier Sustainability team provided eight
training sessions on the Environment as well as on
Health and Safety, which were attended by 177
suppliers
• Through our SSP engagement program, multiple
suppliers improved their environmental performance
on hazardous waste handling, waste water and airtreatment facilities, and fire-prevention initiatives. On
average, the environmental performance of
suppliers in the program showed a year-on-year
improvement of 17%.
• Philips' Supplier Sustainability team monitored the
environmental performance of its 2nd tier suppliers
through a database from the Institute of Public &
Environmental Affairs (IPE)
• Philips was ranked 19th among 306 brands (20th in
2017, 25th in 2016) on the annual IPE list

11.3.4 Environmental statements
This section provides additional information on (some
of) the environmental performance parameters
reported in Environmental performance, starting on
page 43.
Circular Economy
The transition from a linear to a circular economy is
essential to create a sustainable world. A circular
economy aims to decouple economic growth from the
use of natural resources and ecosystems by using these
resources more effectively.
Circular Economy program
The Circular Economy program at Philips ran for the
sixth year in 2018. It consists of five strategic pillars:
• Close loops with current products through takeback, refurbishment, and recycling
• Embed circular economy principles in product
design and business models
• Collaborate with stakeholders outside Philips
• Activate and train internal employees
• Measure and monitor with proof points and metrics
Philips leverages partnerships with the Ellen MacArthur
Foundation, Circle Economy Netherlands and the World
Economic Forum. For example, through the leadership
of our CEO and supported by the Circular Economy
program, Philips teamed up with the World Economic
Forum to establish a public-private platform to
accelerate the circular economy (PACE), launched in
Davos in January 2017. This platform gained further
momentum throughout 2018 and supported projects
covering diverse topics such as plastics, electronics,
food and bio-economy, as well as new market models.

Statements 11.3.4

At Philips we see huge opportunities for businesses to
provide greater value to customers through innovative
service models, smart upgrade paths, or product takeback and remanufacturing programs. Philips made a
commitment in January 2018 at the World Economic
Forum in Davos to fully close the loop on all large
medical systems equipment that becomes available to
us by 2020, and we will continue to expand these
practices until we have covered all professional
equipment. By 'closing the loop' we mean that we will
actively pursue the trade-in of equipment such as MRI,
CT and Cardiovascular systems and we will take full
control to ensure that all traded-in materials are
repurposed in a responsible way. Philips has
spearheaded the Capital Equipment Coalition, a group
of nine front-running large equipment manufacturers
with similar ambitions.
Circular Revenues
In 2018 the Circular Revenues KPI deployed the year
before was further embedded in the internal targetsetting. The Circular Revenues percentage reflects our
revenues from validated circular products, services and
solutions as a % of total Philips revenues. The validation
is based on the following Philips circularity
requirements, which might be further refined in the
future:
1. Performance and Access-based models
Revenues from contracts that include the condition that
Philips has individual end-of-life responsibility for the
product.
2. Refurbished, Reconditioned & Remanufactured
products/systems
Revenues from selling refurbished, reconditioned or
remanufactured products/systems with re-used
components >30% by total weight of product/system.
3. Refurbished, Reconditioned & Remanufactured
components
Revenue from harvested components that have either
been refurbished, reconditioned or remanufactured.
The harvested component must contain >30% re-used
parts or materials by total component weight. The
component can either be a stand-alone component or
part of a new product/system. The commercial value of
the component is considered irrespective of whether it
is part of a service, warranty or sale.
4. Upgrades/refurbishment on site or remote
Revenue from upgrades of existing hardware and
software either on site or remotely.
5. Products with recycled plastics content
Revenues from products with a recycled plastics
content of >25% by total weight of eligible plastics.
We have the ambition to generate a total of 15% of our
revenues from circular propositions by 2020. This is
double the rate of 7% baseline achieved in 2015. The
result for 2018 is 12%. The main contributing revenue
streams are as follows:

Personal Health businesses
Revenues from our B2C products that contain a large
amount of recycled plastics, such as our coffeemakers
and domestic appliances. Revenues from providing our
home sleep and respiratory equipment as a rental
option in some markets.
Diagnosis & Treatment businesses
Our Diamond Select offer of refurbished imaging
systems for sale, system upgrades at customer premises
to enhance performance and extend lifetime, repair and
reuse of spare parts.
Connected Care & Health Informatics businesses
A number of Philips businesses based on subscription
models, such as the Philips Lifeline business and others.
Closing material loops
In addition to tracking circular revenue, we are also
working to achieve transparency on the material flows
connected with the Philips businesses. In 2018 Philips
put a total of some 257,000 tonnes of products on the
market. This assessment is based on sales data
combined with product-specific weights. 85% of the
total product weight was delivered through our B2C
businesses in Personal Health and 15% through our B2B
businesses (Diagnosis & Treatment businesses and
Connected Care & Health Informatics businesses).
We can account for some 20,000 tonnes or
approximately 8% of these products being collected, reused or recycled globally. Europe has advanced
collection systems in place. In these countries we have
an average return rate of around 40-50%. National
legislation is required to create the level playing field
needed to set up efficient recycling systems beyond the
EU. The main pathways and quantities for material reuse in 2018 were:
• Trade-in and return for resale as refurbished
products and for spare parts harvesting (Diagnosis &
Treatment and Connected Care & Health Informatics)
some 2,130 tonnes, a decrease compared to 2,400
tonnes in 2017.
• Collective collection and recycling schemes in
accordance with the EU Waste Electrical and
Electronic Equipment (WEEE) collection schemes.
These products are broken down into the main
material fractions and provided to the market via our
recycling partners
◦ 800 tonnes from Diagnosis & Treatment and
Connected Care & Health Informatics field
returns, following the WEEE category 8
classification, indicating a slight decrease
compared to the previous year (900 tonnes)
◦ 16,000 tonnes from Personal Health, following
the WEEE category 2 classification
On the demand side, the Personal Health businesses
re-integrated significantly more recycled plastics in new
products than the previous year, closing the material
loop for some 1,840 tonnes (1,850 tonnes in 2017) of
plastics due to regulatory headwinds on the import of
recycled materials.
Annual Report 2018

213

Statements 11.3.4

More information can be found on the circular economy
website.
Biodiversity
Philips recognizes the importance of healthy
ecosystems and a rich biodiversity for our company, our
employees, and society as a whole. We aim to minimize
any negative impacts and actively promote ecosystem
restoration activities.
The Philips Biodiversity policy was issued in 2014 and
progress has been made on biodiversity management,
on sites (e.g. impact measurement), on natural capital
valuation, and at management level. Most initiatives
were led by the environmental coordinators at our sites,
for example at our Best and Drachten sites in The
Netherlands, which serve as role models on the topic of
biodiversity.
After Philips participated in the development of the
Natural Capital Protocol in 2015 and volunteered as a
pilot company, we developed our first Environmental
Profit and Loss account (EP&L) in 2017. We have
updated the EP&L for 2018: please refer to
Environmental performance, starting on page 43. As can
be derived from the EP&L, the environmental impact of
the Philips sites is limited as they are not very energyintensive and do not emit large quantities of highimpact substances. With our drive to become carbonneutral in our operations, the impact of our sites will
only become less. The impact of our supply chain,
however, is significantly higher than our own impact. For
this reason, we used the identified hot-spots in our
supply chain as input for our CDP Supply Chain
program. More information on this program can be
found in Supplier indicators, starting on page 208.
Furthermore, our focus on Circular Economy will reduce
the environmental impact of our supply chain. This
impact is most significant during the use-phase of our
products, which underlines the importance of our
continued focus on energy efficiency improvements in
our products and our lobbying efforts for more
demanding industry standards, for example via COCIR.
We are pleased that our 2020-2040 targets have been
approved by the Science Based Targets initiative,
confirming that these are in line with the 2 degrees
scenario as per the Paris agreement.
Sustainable Operations
Our Sustainable Operations programs relate to
improving the environmental performance of our
manufacturing facilities and focus on most of the
contributors to climate change, but also address water,
recycling of waste and chemical substances.

214

Annual Report 2018

Philips Group
Green operations
2018
baseline year
2015

target 2020

2018 actual

84 Ktonnes

0 Ktonnes

26 Ktonnes

Water

978,500 m3

10%
reduction

891,000 m3

Zero waste to
landfill

3.2 Ktonnes

0 Ktonnes

1.7 Ktonnes

78%

90%

84%

1,419 kilos

50%
reduction

1,093 kilos

169 tonnes

10%
reduction

128 tonnes

Total CO2 from
manufacturing

Operational
waste recycling
Hazardous
substances
emissions
VOC emissions

Energy use in manufacturing
Total energy usage in manufacturing amounted to
3,060 terajoules in 2018, of which Personal Health
accounted for about 49% and Diagnosis & Treatment
40%. Energy consumption at Philips level was
comparable to 2017. Personal Health energy
consumption increased by 3%, mainly driven by
increased production volumes at several sites, partly
offset by changes in the organization. Diagnosis &
Treatment energy consumption decreased by 5% due to
organizational changes, and Connected Care & Health
Informatics reported 2% higher energy consumption.
Philips Group
Total energy consumption in manufacturing in terajoules
2014 - 2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Personal Health

1,352

1,389

1,436

1,464

1,508

Diagnosis &
Treatment

1,202

1,214

1,316

1,298

1,237

Connected Care &
Health Informatics
Philips Group

334

336

318

2,888

2,939

3,070

310

315

3,072

3,060

Operational carbon footprint and energy efficiency 2018 details
Becoming carbon-neutral in our operations by 2020 is
one of the key targets, and we have already reduced
our operational carbon footprint very significantly
during the past years (39% decrease in CO2 emissions in
2018 compared to our 2007 base year). Our carbon
footprint decreased by 10% compared to 2017, resulting
in a total of 766 kilotonnes CO2.

Statements 11.3.4

Philips Group
Operational carbon footprint in kilotonnes CO2-equivalent
2014 - 2018

Carbon emissions in manufacturing
Greenhouse gas emissions from our manufacturing
operations totaled 26 kilotonnes CO2-equivalent in
2018, 53% lower than in 2017. Indirect CO2 emissions
represented 8% of the total, which decreased by 94%
due to the increased use of electricity generated from
renewable sources. Direct CO2 emissions were
comparable with the previous years. Emissions from
other greenhouse gases increased by 2 kilotonnes.

847
821
55
743

84

65

757

87

85

766

40

77

26

Manufacturing

40

Non-industrial
operations

137

Business travel

135

58

Philips Group
Total carbon emissions in manufacturing in kilotonnes
CO2-equivalent
2014 - 2018

158
152
147
617

Logistics

563
501
447

'14

460

'15

'16

'17

2016

2017

2018

21

20

20

20

Indirect CO2

62

60

62

33

2

2

3

3

2

4

84

84

85

55

26

From glass
production

'18

Philips Group

• Accounting for 3% of our total footprint, total CO2
emissions from manufacturing decreased by 53%
due to a significantly higher share of electricity from
renewable sources (now at 99.8% in our
manufacturing sites).
• CO2 emissions from non-industrial operations
(offices, warehouses, etc.), representing 5% of total
emissions, decreased by 2% in 2018 due to
implemented energy efficiency projects and a higher
share of electricity from renewable sources.
• Total CO2 emissions related to business travel,
accounting for 18% of our carbon footprint, showed
an increase of 2% compared to 2017, due to an
increase in shorter-distance air travel (<4,000 km),
where the emissions per km are higher compared to
long-haul air travel (>4,000 km). Combined with
increased DEFRA emissions factors for air travel, this
led to an overall increase in business travel-related
emissions of 2%.
• Overall CO2 emissions from logistics, representing
73% of the total, decreased by 9% compared to 2017.
This was partly driven by a strong decrease in air
freight as a result of the air freight reduction program
started in 2018. Various measures have been
introduced to drive down emissions from air freight,
such as multi-modal shipments, a transition from air
to ocean freight, a stricter air freight policy, and
optimization of our warehouse locations.
Philips Group
Operational carbon footprint for logistics
2014 - 2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

248

309

371

467

384

91

65

67

67

70

Ocean transport

108

86

63

83

109

Philips Group

447

460

501

617

563

Road transport

2015

20

Other greenhouse
gases

The 2018 results can be attributed to several factors:

Air transport

2014
Direct CO2

Philips Group
Total carbon emissions in manufacturing per segment in kilotonnes
CO2-equivalent
2014 - 2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Personal Health

45

49

59

36

11

Diagnosis &
Treatment

31

28

22

16

11

Connected Care &
Health Informatics
Philips Group

8

7

4

3

4

84

84

85

55

26

CO2 emissions in 2018 were 29 kilotonnes
CO2-equivalent lower than in 2017. This was driven by
the increased use of electricity generated from
renewable sources in all businesses in various regions.
At Personal Health, CO2 emissions decreased due to an
increase in the use of electricity generated by
renewable sources, but this was partially offset by
operational changes. Diagnosis & Treatment decreased
its CO2 emissions due to an increase in use of electricity
generated by renewable sources and lower energy
consumption. Connected Care & Health Informatics
reported comparable CO2 emissions. In 2018, all our US
operations were powered by wind energy. Additionally,
our operations in the Netherlands started to receive
electricity from the Bouwdokken and Krammer wind
farms, clear steps towards our ambition to become
carbon-neutral in our operations by 2020.
Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
(TCFD)
Our 2018 integrated financial, social and environmental
report aims to follow the recommendations of the
TCFD. More detailed information can be found on the
Sustainability website.
Hazardous substances emissions
In the ‘Healthy people, Sustainable planet’ program,
new chemical-reduction targets have been defined for
the most relevant categories of substances for Philips,
i.e. hazardous substance emissions and VOC (Volatile
Organic Compounds) emissions. As part of the

Annual Report 2018

215

Statements 11.3.4

deployment of the new program, reduction targets at
our industrial sites have been agreed.

mix and higher volumes. VOC emissions in the
Diagnosis & Treatment businesses segment decreased
significantly due to changes in the organization
mitigated by increased production volumes.

Philips Group
Hazardous substances emissions
2015 - 2018
2015

2016

2017

2018

Personal Health

789

642

670

456

Diagnosis & Treatment

604

428

743

636

Connected Care & Health
Informatics
Philips Group

26

29

4

1

1,419

1,099

1,417

1,093

In 2018, emissions of hazardous substances decreased
by 23%, mainly due to the phasing-out of harmful
chemicals and process optimizations at a Diagnosis &
Treatment site and a Personal Health site. Changes to
manufacturing processes and increased production at
multiple sites also had an impact on emissions.
Connected Care & Health Informatics sites reduced their
emissions.
VOC emissions
Philips Group
VOC emissions in tonnes
2015 - 2018
Personal Health
Diagnosis & Treatment
Connected Care & Health
Informatics
Philips Group

2015

2016

2017

138

92

92

2018
83

29

35

48

44

2

2

2

2

169

129

142

128

VOC emissions decreased by 10% in 2018 to 128 tonnes.
VOC emissions in the Personal Health businesses
segment (representing 65% of total VOC emissions)
decreased 10% compared to 2017, mainly driven by a
newly installed chemicals emissions treatment system
in China and changes to the lacquering process. These
reductions were mitigated by changes in the product

216

Annual Report 2018

ISO 14001 certification
Most of the Philips manufacturing sites are certified
under the umbrella certificates of the businesses. In
2018, 83% of reporting manufacturing sites were
certified.
Philips Group
ISO 14001 certifications as a % of all reporting organizations
2014 - 2018
Philips
Group

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

73

75

78

82

83

Environmental incidents
In 2018, two environmental incidents were reported at
two Diagnosis & Treatment sites. These incidents related
to leakage or minor spills and were reported to the
authorities where required by local legislation.
Immediate actions were taken to remediate the effect.
Three non-compliances were reported. In Personal
Health, one was caused by exceeding the legal noise
limits in the surrounding area, while another related to
exceeding the limit on metal concentration in
discharged wastewater. No fine was issued after the site
responded and corrective action was taken. At one
Diagnosis & Treatment site, one non-compliance was
reported relating to waste water, resulting in a fine of
EUR 1,500.
To find out about our health and safety, waste, water
and emissions metrics at global, regional and market
level, go to
https://www.results.philips.com/#!/interactiveworldmap

Statements 11.3.4

Philips Group
2018
Total waste

Market
Africa

Manufacturing
sites

Total
Recordable
Case rate 1)

CO2 emitted
(tonnes
CO2)

Waste
(tonnes)

Recycled
(%)

-

-

-

Emission

Water (m3)

Hazardous
substances
(kg)

VOC
substances
(tonnes)

-

-

-

-

0.00

ASEAN &
Pacific

1

0.04

2,861

2,042

94%

96,691

10

42

Benelux

2

0.11

5,437

5,342

76%

98,925

205

19

Central &
Eastern
Europe

1

0.00

537

1,135

98%

8,353

33

1

Germany,
Austria &
Switzerland

3

0.38

3,892

2,696

90%

47,554

545

8

France

-

0.11

-

-

-

-

-

-

Greater
China

6

0.07

3,941

4,019

92%

339,058

149

23

Iberia

-

0.90

-

-

-

-

-

-

Indian
Subcontinent

3

0.00

187

635

98%

26,317

36

3

Italy, Israel &
Greece

3

0.61

1,100

1,136

65%

23,797

0

1

Japan

-

0.13

-

-

-

-

-

-

Latin
America

3

0.35

1,077

710

92%

93,494

0

18

Middle East
& Turkey

-

0.15

-

-

-

-

-

-

Nordics

-

0.57

-

-

-

-

-

-

North
America

6,832

5,974

78%

148,863

26

10

16

0.67

Russia &
Central Asia

-

0.00

-

-

-

-

-

-

UK & Ireland

1

0.29

218

797

83%

7,726

89

3

Annual Report 2018

217

1)

Includes manufacturing and non-manufacturing sites

Statements 11.3.5

11.3.5 Assurance report of the independent auditor
To: The Supervisory Board and Shareholders of
Koninklijke Philips N.V.
Our opinion
We have audited the sustainability information in the
accompanying annual report for the year 2018 of
Koninklijke Philips N.V. (the Company) based in
Eindhoven, the Netherlands. An audit is aimed at
obtaining a reasonable level of assurance.
In our opinion, the sustainability information presents, in
all material respects, a reliable and adequate view of:
• The policy and business operations with regard to
sustainability
• The thereto related events and achievements for the
year 2018
in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting
Standards (option Comprehensive) of the Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI) and applied supplemental
reporting criteria as included in section 'Approach to
sustainability reporting' of the annual report.
The sustainability information consists of 'Societal
impact' and section 'Sustainability statements', of the
annual report.
Basis for our opinion
We have performed our audit on the sustainability
information in accordance with Dutch law, including
Dutch Standard 3810N, “Assurance-opdrachten inzake
maatschappelijke verslagen” (Assurance engagements
relating to sustainability reports), which is a specific
Dutch Standard that is based on the International
Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000,
“Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews
of Historical Financial Information”. Our responsibilities
under this standard are further described in the Our
responsibilities for the audit of the sustainability
information section of our report.
We are independent of Koninklijke Philips N.V. in
accordance with the EU Regulation on specific
requirements regarding statutory audit of publicinterest entities, the Wet toezicht
accountantsorganisaties (Wta, Audit firms supervision
act), the Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van
accountants bij assurance-opdrachten (ViO, Code of
Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with
respect to independence) and other relevant
independence requirements in the Netherlands. This
includes that we do not perform any activities that
could result in a conflict of interest with our
independent assurance engagement. Furthermore we
have complied with the Verordening gedrags- en
beroepsregels accountants (VGBA, Dutch Code of
Ethics).
We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion.

218

Annual Report 2018

Reporting criteria
The sustainability information needs to be read and
understood together with the reporting criteria.
Koninklijke Philips N.V. is solely responsible for selecting
and applying these reporting criteria, taking into
account applicable law and regulations related to
reporting.
The reporting criteria used for the preparation of the
sustainability information are the Sustainability
Reporting Standards of the GRI and the applied
supplemental reporting criteria as disclosed in section
'Approach to sustainability reporting' of the annual
report.
Materiality
Based on our professional judgment we determined
materiality levels for each relevant part of the
sustainability information and for the sustainability
information as a whole. When evaluating our materiality
levels, we have taken into account quantitative and
qualitative considerations as well as the relevance of
information for both stakeholders and the Company.
Limitations to the scope of our audit
The sustainability information includes prospective
information such as ambitions, strategy, plans,
expectations and estimates. Inherent to prospective
information, the actual future results are uncertain. We
do not provide any assurance on the assumptions and
achievability of prospective information in the
sustainability information.
The references to external sources or websites in the
sustainability information, excluding “Methodology for
calculating Lives Improved”, “Methodology for
calculating Environmental Profit & Loss Account”, and
“GRI content index”, are not part of the sustainability
information as audited by us. We therefore do not
provide assurance on this information.
Responsibilities of the Board of Management and the
Supervisory Board for the sustainability information
The Board of Management is responsible for the
preparation of the sustainability information in
accordance with the reporting criteria as included in the
section Reporting criteria, including the identification of
stakeholders and the definition of material matters. The
choices made by the Board of Management regarding
the scope of the sustainability information and the
reporting policy are summarized in section 'Approach to
sustainability reporting' of the annual report.
The Board of Management is also responsible for such
internal control as the Board of Management
determines is necessary to enable the preparation of
the sustainability information that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or errors.
The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the
Company’s reporting process.

Statements 11.3.5

Our responsibilities for the audit of the sustainability
information
Our responsibility is to plan and perform the audit in a
manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and
appropriate audit evidence for our opinion.
Our audit has been performed with a high, but not
absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not
have detected all material errors and fraud.
We apply the Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen
(NVKS, Regulations for Quality management systems)
and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of
quality control including documented policies and
procedures regarding compliance with ethical
requirements, professional standards and other relevant
legal and regulatory requirements.
We have exercised professional judgment and have
maintained professional skepticism throughout the
audit, performed by a multi-disciplinary team, in
accordance with the Dutch assurance standards, ethical
requirements and independence requirements.
Our audit included amongst others:
• Performing an analysis of the external environment
and obtaining an understanding of relevant social
themes and issues, and the characteristics of the
Company
• Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting
criteria used, their consistent application and related
disclosures in the sustainability information. This
includes the evaluation of the results of the
stakeholders’ dialogue and the reasonableness of
estimates made by the Board of Management
• Obtaining an understanding of the systems and
processes for collecting, reporting and consolidating
the sustainability information, including obtaining an
understanding of internal control relevant to our
audit, but not for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control
• Identifying and assessing the risks that the
sustainability information is misleading or
unbalanced, or contains material misstatements,
whether due to fraud or errors. Designing and
performing further audit procedures responsive to
those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion. The risk that the sustainability information is
misleading or unbalanced, or the risk of not
detecting a material misstatement resulting from
fraud is higher than for one resulting from errors.
Fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of
internal control. These further audit procedures
consisted amongst others of:
◦ Interviewing management and relevant staff at
corporate and local level responsible for the
sustainability strategy, policy and results

•
•

•
•

◦ Interviewing relevant staff responsible for
providing the information for, carrying out internal
control procedures on, and consolidating the
data in the sustainability information
◦ Visits to production sites in China (Suzhou) and
Brazil (Varginha) aimed at, on a local level,
validating source data and evaluating the design,
implementation of controls and validation
procedures
◦ Obtaining assurance information that the
sustainability information reconciles with
underlying records of the Company
◦ Evaluating relevant internal and external
documentation, on a test basis, to determine the
reliability of the information in the sustainability
information
◦ Evaluating the suitability and plausibility of the
external sources used in the calculations on
which the reported Lives improved and
Environmental Profit & Loss Account are based
◦ Evaluating whether the assumptions used in the
calculations, on which the reported Lives
improved and Environmental Profit & Loss
Account are based, are reasonable
◦ Performing an analytical review of the data and
trends in the information submitted for
consolidation at corporate level
Reconciling the relevant financial information with
the financial statements
Evaluating the consistency of the sustainability
information with the information in the annual report
which is not included in the scope of our audit
Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and
content of the sustainability information
Considering whether the sustainability information
as a whole, including the disclosures, reflects the
purpose of the reporting criteria used

We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding,
among other matters, the planned scope and timing of
the audit and significant findings, including any
significant findings in internal control that we identify
during our audit.
Amsterdam, the Netherlands
February 26, 2019
Ernst & Young Accountants LLP
Signed by J. Niewold

Annual Report 2018

219

www.philips.com/annualreport2018
© 2019 Koninklijke Philips N.V. All rights reserved

