Introduction
1

PostNL at a glance

1

2

Message from Herna Verhagen

4

3

Our identity

7

4

Our operating context

9

Business Report
With clever logistics,
healthcare will come to you
Read more in chapter 6

5

Value creation and strategy

15

6

Customer value

22

7

Operational value

28

8

Social value

33

9

Environmental value

40

10 Financial value

45

Governance

Mail deliverer becomes
parcel deliverer
Read more in chapter 8

11 Statement of the Board of Management

53

12 Report of the Supervisory Board

54

13 Corporate governance

59

14 Risk management

70

15 Remuneration report

78

16 Our tax policy and principles

83

17 PostNL on the capital markets

85

Performance Statements
18 Financial statements
19 Non-financial statements

90
172

Appendices

City hub paves the way
for sustainable delivery
Read more in chapter 9

Appendix 1: Other non-financial performance indicators

201

Appendix 2: Data coverage table

202

Appendix 3: Glossary and definitions

203

Appendix 4: GRI Content Index

207

Appendix 5: UN Global Compact reference table

211

Appendix 6: Summary of key figures

212

How to read this report
Management summary
Readers looking for the highlights of 2018
are advised to read chapter 1 until 5, and
the first pages of chapter 6 until 10.

Report of the Board of Management
The sections Introduction, Business report and
Governance together make up the report of the
Board of Management.

Forward-looking statements
This Annual Report contains forward-looking
statements. Readers should not put undue reliance
on these statements. These provide a snapshot on
the publication date of this report. In addition, future
actual events, results and outcomes likely differ from
these statements made. Chapter 19: Non-financial
statements, section 1.3 provides more information
on forward-looking statements.

Introduction

1 PostNL at a glance

PostNL Driving transition | 1 PostNL at a glance

1

PostNL Driving transition | 1 PostNL at a glance

2

The Benelux's number one service
provider in parcels and mail
Our purpose is to deliver special moments to everyone. We are
the deliverers who know you and who are there for you when
you need them. Who deliver for everyone, to everyone. This
means that on an average weekday we deliver 800,000 parcels
and 7 million letters throughout the Netherlands. For our
customers we are the indispensible link between senders and
receivers, and the connection between the physical and their
digital world.

Large employer
For 220 years we have ensured that mail and parcel services are
reliable and accessible in the Netherlands. And with almost
38,000 employees, we are one of the largest employers in the
country. PostNL has the biggest logistics mail and parcel
network in the Benelux and we are active throughout the world
with our cross-border activities under the brand Spring.

More than delivering parcels and mail
PostNL is transforming from a traditional mail business into a
logistics service provider. Today, we are already doing much
more than only delivering mail and parcels. For example, we
help our business customers to be successful by providing
direct and online marketing support, automated order
processing or temperature-controlled medical transport. And
we develop services that make consumers' lives easier, such as
collecting parcels that consumers want to return, delivering
flowers and food, or delivering and fitting kitchens and white
goods.

PostNL Driving transition | 1 PostNL at a glance

Customer focus
The consumer and our business customers are our starting
point in everything we do. We believe that it is vital to keep mail
accessible and reliable for everyone, everywhere, whether it is
delivering a bank statement or a Christmas card. The
unstoppable growth of e-commerce is an important driver in
our parcel delivery and logistic activities, where we make online
shopping easier. We connect with e-tailers through their
webshops and platforms, continuing to offer them a growing
range of delivery options. And we provide consumers with
greater control over when and where we deliver their parcels.
And PostNL is always nearby; whether it is through the PostNL
app, a retail location in the local neighbourhood or our
deliverers in every street, seven days a week.

A people company
We are a people company. We focus on creating a work
environment in which everyone can be themselves and believe
that diversity in background, mindset and abilities is crucial to
succeed as a company. We work to offer learning and
development opportunities for employees at all levels of the
organisation, and for all skill sets, ensuring that everyone can
work to reach their true potential. Only by working together can
we truly become the favourite deliverer.

3

2 Message from Herna Verhagen

Driving transition
We are steadily realising our strategy to be the postal and
logistics solution provider in the Benelux. Our target of having
50 percent of revenues coming from e-commerce is within
reach, ahead of time. Our Parcels business progressed to the
next growth phase by investing in infrastructure, innovation
and an efficient, value-creating delivery model. We continued
to adapt the business model of our Mail operations, which will
help us save costs and further manage volume decline. We also
took several steps towards consolidation of mail networks in
the Netherlands. And by growing our presence and expanding
our retail network, we can ensure that we are always close to
our customers and consumers, creating one customer
experience across PostNL.
At the same time, we dealt with a number of challenges during
the year. Our customer satisfaction and employee engagement
in 2018 were not where we want or need them to be.
Sometimes for reasons within our control, and in those cases
we have started working on improvements. And sometimes
external circumstances, such as a tight labour market and the
regulatory environment, tested us. While these things will not
go away, we are confident that the steps we are taking will
create a platform for further growth and sustainable value.

Value for our shareholders
Value creation for our shareholders remains a key priority for
us. Our share price in 2018 did not develop as we had hoped,
which was disappointing. However, it is important to focus on
our long-term prospects for value creation. Next to the strategic
developments mentioned above, we have delivered an underlying cash operating income at the top-end of our guidance for
the year. Our aim continues to be to offer shareholders a sustainable, progressive dividend based on the performance of our
business. We are confident that we will continue to find the

PostNL Driving transition | 2 Message from Herna Verhagen

right balance between adjusting our mail operations in the
challenging Dutch postal market and expanding our footprint
as an e-commerce solutions provider, creating long-term value
for our shareholders and other stakeholders.
As a company in transformation, we believe that focus is key to
achieving our goal. In line with our strategy to be the postal and
logistics solution provider in the Benelux, we have decided to
divest Nexive, our mail and parcels business in Italy, and
Postcon, our mail business in Germany. We are making good
progress with the divestment process and we expect to make
further announcements before the summer.

Parcels: striking the right balance
Driven by strong volume growth, revenue at our Parcels business increased by 19.8%. Price increases above inflation for all
customer categories were more than offset by a shift in customer mix, as large e-tailers gain market share and grow faster
than smaller players. Business performance improved on the
back of increasing volumes, leading to higher efficiency. At the
same time, we faced additional capacity costs, partly explained
by a tight labour and transport market and increasing IT costs
related to the ongoing development of our digital services.
During the year, we opened three new parcel sorting centres in
the Netherlands, which is the pace we plan to maintain in 2019.
We are very pleased with the development of our parcels
business in Belgium, where we plan to further expand our
parcel sorting and delivery capabilities.
We keep pace with e-commerce growth by expanding our
network, hiring more people and constantly innovating our
parcel collection, sorting and delivery models. In 2018, parcel
volumes increased by more than 20%. On an average day, we
now deliver over 800,000 parcels. On peak days, such as Black

4

Friday and Sinterklaas, the daily volume increased to 1.4
million parcels per day.
While the enormous success and growth of e-tailers creates
opportunities, there are also challenges. The high pressure on
peak days requires us to accelerate our investments. This is an
industry issue, which we will have to tackle together with our
customers. Increased awareness among stakeholders of the
positive and negative impact of a growing e-commerce market
is vital to create a sustainable model for the future. Through a
number of commercial initiatives, we will continue to ensure
that volume and revenue growth translate into bottom-line
growth.
As we transform, we actively seek to develop new growth
domains close to our core logistic propositions, which can also
serve as a feeder of volumes to our Mail and Parcels networks.
We have chosen food and health as specific areas where we can
truly add value for customers and where societal trends offer
real growth opportunities. Specialist activities within logistic
solutions, such as fulfilment, @Home and Mikropakket, further
broaden our capabilities and offer customers the right solution.

Cross border: further leveraging our local
presence
At Spring, our international provider of mail and parcels
solutions to businesses worldwide, we saw a fierce competitive
environment in 2018, especially in Asia. This put pressure on
our margins and resulted in a drop in performance
year-on-year. Going forward, our goal is to further leverage our
local presence and our customer capabilities, resulting in an
even faster, more customer-centred approach. We continue to
believe in the opportunities our broker business has in a fast
growing, global e-commerce environment, and as a source of
inbound and outbound flows for our Benelux networks.

Mail: becoming a more flexible business
The performance at our Mail business was characterised by
volume decline of 10.7% and autonomous cost increases,
which could not be fully compensated by price increases and
cost savings. After a delay at the beginning of the year in the
implementation of important change projects, the run-rate of
cost savings improved in the second half of 2018. Revenue
decreased by 5.9%. Fourth-quarter results were very good, with
the December stamp again contributing significantly to our
performance.
The decline of mail volumes in the Netherlands continued to
develop in line with our guidance. For the first time, we saw
trends towards similar levels of decline in other European
countries, specifically in Belgium and the United Kingdom. The
decline underpins the urgent need to consolidate the mail
networks in the Netherlands, to change regulation and to
transform our mail activities towards a more flexible model for
mail collection, sorting and delivery. With this model, we create
synergies and cut costs in parallel with the volume decline. This

PostNL Driving transition | 2 Message from Herna Verhagen

is important in any scenario, but it will also leave us in a better
position to add additional volumes that result from potential
consolidation of networks, if and when it happens.

Postal dialogue and consolidation
For a number of years, we have consistently argued that
consolidation of mail networks is the best solution for
affordable postal delivery, available for all age groups, including
the elderly, and accessible in cities and rural areas.
Furthermore, it is the best way to manage volume decline in a
socially responsible manner. In the first half of 2018, a
commission led by Ms Oudeman researched the postal market
and held a dialogue with all relevant postal stakeholders. In
June, the state secretary of Economic Affairs and Climate
Policy, Ms Keijzer, sent her conclusions on the postal dialogue
to parliament.
We welcomed the outcome, which recognised that regulation
should reflect the strongly declining postal market. The state
secretary concluded that adjustment of regulation is required,
in order to safeguard the future accessibility and reliability of
postal delivery for everyone in the Netherlands. A debate in
September showed vital, broad parliamentary support for
consolidation. Due to anti-trust regulation and the involvement
of several stakeholders, the road to consolidation is, as
predicted, not straightforward and will take time.
On the day of publication of this Annual Report, we have made
a joint announcement with Sandd regarding our intention to
create one strong national postal network in the Netherlands.
PostNL and Sandd have filed a request for approval with the
regulator, which is the formal start of this process. Combining
the two postal networks of PostNL and Sandd is essential, in
order to ensure that the postal market remains reliable,
accessible and affordable for everyone. It also builds a stronger
basis for long-term employment for mail deliverers. The
combination, which is conditional upon approval and other
conditions, will secure the foundation for a sustainable postal
service in the Netherlands.

Regulation
In September, a verdict by the Dutch Trade and Industry
Appeals Tribunal (CBb) annulled a market analysis decision by
Dutch market regulator ACM on 24-hour business mail. The CBb
ruled that the ACM had insufficiently substantiated that digital
sending is not part of the market for 24-hour business mail.
Following this positive outcome, PostNL now offers postal
operators access to its network based on fair tariffs and
conditions that have been accepted by the market.
Despite the broad political support for consolidation, the ACM
continues to promote competition, regardless of the negative
consequences this will have for the financial viability of the mail
business, for the people working in the postal sector and
potentially for millions of senders and receivers of mail in the
Netherlands. At the end of December, the ACM announced a

5

new draft market analysis decision, in which it set potential new
tariffs and conditions for postal operators to access PostNL’s
postal network.
The approach of the regulator creates new uncertainty and falls
short of reflecting the reality and the impact of the rapidly
declining mail volumes on the sector and on PostNL. At the time
of writing this report, the ACM had not yet published its final
market decision. If the regulator does not change its initial
approach, our guidance of the negative impact of regulation
may have to be adjusted upwards.

We depend on our people
We aim to be the best employer in our sector, with people who
are happy and motivated to do what is best for our customers
and consumers. Despite all the digital and technical support a
sophisticated logistics company requires, successful delivery
truly depends on the hard work of many people. We’re proud
and thankful to have such a group of committed people working
for us, either employed by PostNL or by subcontractor and
other companies.
Five days a week, thousands of our postal deliverers walk and
bike the streets to deliver mail to every household in the
Netherlands. They are supported by colleagues collecting and
sorting mail, while over 3,000 retailers offer post office services.
Thousands of thriving webshops and e-tailers depend on our
parcel deliverers and sorters to deliver their promise to the
customer. Our drivers are the backbone of our logistic efforts,
on the road day and night ensuring we can deliver over 7 million
letters per day, five days a week, and 800,000 parcels each day.
Our people working in support and staff roles are as vital,
making sure that the machinery runs like clockwork.
As one of the largest employers in the Netherlands, PostNL
offers thousands of people the certainty of having a job, a
stable income, security and opportunities for personal
development and growth. We aim to offer more people a
contract based on PostNL’s solid working terms and conditions.
The people working with and for PostNL can rely on a safe,
healthy and diverse work environment where they are
respected and enjoy a positive and cooperative culture. We
work hard to create an atmosphere where people are
passionate and proud to be part of PostNL.

Looking forward: focus on our potential
In 2019, we will continue to build on a strong platform created
to deliver growth and value, as we continue to focus on the
potential of our business. At Mail, we will introduce a more
flexible model for sorting and delivery. For Parcels, we will take
further steps to strike the right balance between higher
volumes, profitability and higher cash flow.

PostNL Driving transition | 2 Message from Herna Verhagen

We will continue to focus on transforming to an e-commerce
logistics company by strengthening the range of customer
solutions we offer and further developing our digital offering.
And of course we will continue to invest in activities that make
our business more environmentally sustainable, as we believe
sustainability is our license to operate. We are working towards
the ambitious goals of emission-free delivery in 25 Dutch city
centres by 2025, and emission-free last-mile delivery across the
Benelux by 2030. To help achieve this, we are working with our
employees, our customers, our partners and our suppliers to
develop innovative solutions to reduce our environmental
impact.

220 years at the heart of society
Despite the challenges, we have a lot to be proud of looking
back at 2018. Throughout this report you will find many
examples of how we are improving the customer journey,
innovating our business processes and introducing smart
cost-saving measures. I would like to take this opportunity to
thank our key stakeholders – customers, our people,
shareholders, suppliers and other relations/partners – for their
support and loyalty to PostNL. Striking the right balance
between the interests of our stakeholders is at the heart of
what we do every day.
We are proud of our history of 220 years, and what we stand
for. Our ambition is to be the favourite deliverer, and our
purpose is to deliver special moments to everyone. In 2018 we
redefined our purpose and principles that guide our behaviour.
These ensure that everyone within PostNL moves in the same
direction and focuses on the same targets. They give guidance
on what we do, the customer experience we aim for and how
we work together. Please refer to chapter 3 of this report to
learn more about it.
We strongly believe that PostNL has proved, and will continue
to prove, that our long-term strategy is right for all of our
stakeholders. It offers value to our customers and to consumers
as we deliver special moments for everyone, everywhere, every
day. It offers jobs, income, security and development
opportunities for our people. It creates sustainable value for
shareholders. And as a company, we aim to contribute to a
better society, which is connected, smart and sustainable. This
is what we have done since 1799, when the first national postal
service was founded. And this is what we will continue to do in
the future.
Kind regards
Herna Verhagen, CEO

6

3 Our identity
We provide society and our customers with reliable and accessible postal and logistic
services. We are proud of our history and what we stand for: delivering special
moments for everyone. In 2018, we redefined our purpose and the principles that
guide our behaviour: what we do, the customer experience we aim for and how we
work together.

Why: To deliver special moments to
everyone
Our purpose is to deliver special moments to everyone. While
we operate in a world in which everything and everyone is
connected, we understand that every contact moment is a
valuable moment. And that every delivery is a promise. This is
why we aim to deliver with pleasure and care.

Who: To deliver for everyone, to
everyone
We collect, we sort, we deliver. We deliver to everyone, every
day. We are the deliverers who know you and who are there for
you when you need them. Who plan ahead and work with
colleagues to develop digital solutions and new services. We
want to be everyone's favourite deliverer.

What: To ensure that you can send and
receive anything, anywhere, anytime
We deliver for you or to you. Whatever, wherever and whenever
you want. We help you from the ordering process till after
delivery. In the Benelux and beyond. And more sustainably
everyday.

How: Keep it simple. Be smart. Do it
together
We make it easy and keep it simple. We do what we promise.
We do it smart: we work with you and stay ahead of the curve,
always looking to improve. And we do it together with you and
everyone who works for or with us. We aim to make people
happy with special moments.
Examples of how we are contributing to being everyone's
favourite deliverer can be found on the next page.

PostNL Driving transition | 3 Our identity

7

PostNL Driving transition | 3 Our identity

8

4 Our operating context
PostNL plays an important role in society as a postal and logistics service provider. We
operate in a multi-stakeholder environment and our stakeholders significantly
influence those areas we focus on to create long-term value. Each stakeholder decides
which topics are most important and relevant to them. Together, we carefully identify
those topics that are most material and should be prioritised. At the same time, we
look at the impact competition and the regulatory landscape have on our businesses
and our customers.

Stakeholders
We engage with our stakeholders in different ways, on different
levels and on different topics to better understand their
interests and the way our activities affect their decision
making. Our main stakeholder groups are summarised below. A
more detailed overview of the stakeholder engagement
process is included in chapter 19: Non-financial
statements, section: 'Basis of preparation'.

Customers
Our customers are our reason for being and indispensable to
our existence. We identify two types of customers who send
and receive parcels and mail and use related logistic services.
The first are business customers, ranging from one-person
companies to multinational organisations, and the second are
consumers. We engage with each on different types of topics.
Business customers expect seamless, high quality, sustainable
services that are delivered where and when promised.
Consumers expect PostNL's services to be accessible and
reliable and they increasingly expect to be in control and are
demanding more flexible delivery options. Our ambition is to be
our customers favourite deliverer.

Our people
PostNL is a large employer and our people and those who work
for us through contracted partners are key to our ability to
provide our logistic services. The main topics we discuss with
our employees during our dialogues with them relate to the
work they do, how they do it, and where we can make
improvements. We collaborate closely with trade unions and
the works council to realise favourable working conditions. We
want to provide everyone with a safe working environment,
where they feel respected and enjoy a culture that stimulates
innovation, diversity, opportunities and working together
across business segments.

PostNL Driving transition | 4 Our operating context

Investors
A healthy financial position and performance is important for
investors and shareholders, as well as banks and financial
analysts. The main topics of discussion we have with investors
and shareholders relate to our business drivers and financial
performance, how we create value, our investment proposition,
and our short and long-term outlook.

Government bodies
PostNL operates in a regulated environment. This is why it is
essential we engage with local and national governments,
regulators and the general political arena about policy and
regulatory developments. This includes topics such as the
future of the Dutch postal market, labour relations and future
city logistics.

Opinion leaders and society
The media influences the public debate on PostNL, while
academic and research institutions also publish views on the
company and the market in which we operate. NGOs look
at PostNL from different perspectives, such as our Human
Rights and environmental impact. Local communities are
important as our activities mean we are visible in every street in
the Netherlands. We engage with these various stakeholders
on a number of topics, including business events, market
trends, environmental issues and social issues. The reduction of
letter boxes in the Netherlands is an example of ongoing
engagement.

Business partners
Suppliers and other business partners form an important
stakeholder group, helping us as we work to execute
our strategy. This includes suppliers of IT services, goods,
vehicles, retail shops and other organisations from which we
purchase services. Relevant topics of discussion with business
partners include business ethics, responsible procurement
practices and privacy.

9

Materiality
PostNL considers all topics of discussion that we have with
stakeholders as relevant. For the Annual Report we focus our
disclosures on those topics deemed most material. Identifying
what is most material involved first carrying out a materiality
analysis to prioritise the topics we had identified, and then
ranking them based on two dimensions.
●

●

The first is the topic's influence on stakeholder assessments
and decisions. This is the vertical axis on the Materiality
matrix.
The second is the significance of the impact of PostNL with
the topic on its operating environment. This is the horizontal
axis on the Materiality matrix.

PostNL categorises topics in five different domains of value
creation, which are included in the key in the Materiality matrix.

While all topics in the Materiality matrix have some form
of financial impact, these five value creation domains form the
basis for the outcome of our value creation process. This is why
we have structured the business report along them.
Topics ranked in the upper right-hand quadrant of the
materiality matrix represent the key material topics for the
company. These seven topics best reflect where PostNL creates
long-term value. All other topics in the matrix remain important
and often contribute to the value created with our key material
topics. In order to positively influence the decisions of our
stakeholders, while optimising our impact on society, it is
important to address these key material topics in our strategy.
The table on the next page describes the interpretation of the
topics and how these are addressed in our strategy. A more
detailed description of our stakeholder engagement and
materiality analysis is included in chapter 19: Non-financial
statements, section: 'Basis of preparation'.

Materiality matrix

PostNL Driving transition | 4 Our operating context

10

Competition
Our dense network means we have a strong foundation within
our markets. In the growing parcel and e-commerce markets we
are witnessing greater competition in both the Benelux region
and cross-border from existing national and international
players and new entrants. At the same time, large
(inter)national e-tailers are beginning to fulfil part of the
delivery process themselves. We focus on continuously
developing propositions that help us make a difference for our
customers.

This requires us to maintain a country-wide coverage and
deliver on specific quality targets, which do not apply to other
postal companies. In a declining market the challenge is to
secure accessible and reliable postal services at affordable
prices. PostNL continues to pro-actively engage with our
stakeholders, including the government, to determine the best
way forward for the postal market.

The competitive market place for physical mail is influenced by
substitution due to digitalisation and regulation. PostNL is the
appointed universal service provider (USP) in the Netherlands.

PostNL Driving transition | 4 Our operating context

11

Regulatory environment
The postal market in general

The Dutch postal market has changed fundamentally over the
past few years. Dutch mail volumes have halved since 2005 and
the decline will continue. The postal market is labour intensive,
and the steady volume decline has far-reaching consequences
for employment opportunities at PostNL and the Dutch postal
market as a whole.
The Postal Dialogue took place during the first months of 2018,
during which we underlined that regulation should not
artificially support competition aimed at duplicating networks:
regulation should reflect the reality of the shrinking mail
market. Regulation that supports network competition results
in competition at the expense of labour conditions. Looking to
the future, the focus should be on the reliability and
accessibility of the postal service and on decent labour
conditions. We believe that the consolidation of postal
networks in the Netherlands is inevitable.
In June 2018, the Oudeman Committee, appointed by the state
secretary of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, published its
conclusions on the future of the postal market in the
Netherlands. The report concluded that consolidation, or a
merger between the two largest postal companies, is the only
sustainable solution to safeguard the continuity, affordability,
accessibility and reliability of the postal service and realise
decent labour conditions for the whole sector. After the
publication of the Oudeman conclusions, the state secretary
endorsed these recommendations in a letter to Parliament,
where there is broad support for consolidation. The state
secretary will use the results of the report to adapt future postal
legislation.

Significant Market Power regulation
In July 2017, the Authority for Consumers and Market (ACM)
concluded that PostNL has significant market power (SMP) in
the 24-hour bulk mail segment. As a result, from August 2017
we were obliged to grant (regional) postal operators network
access in this segment at prices and under conditions specified
by the ACM. These conditions and prices have had a significant
impact on our Mail business, both operationally and financially.
In September 2018, the Dutch Trade and Industry Appeals
Tribunal (CBb) annulled the ACM’s decision on SMP. This means
that the obligations imposed on us by the ACM regarding
network access for postal operators no longer apply. Because
of the CBb verdict, we have adjusted the expected financial
impact related to the ACM’s measures to between €40 million
and €45 million on an annualised basis (from between
€50 million and €70 million), fully visible in 2020. PostNL is
currently assessing the damage done by the ACM's revoked
decision and will possibly file a claim.

PostNL Driving transition | 4 Our operating context

For 2018, the access tariffs paid by postal companies were
corrected to PostNL's conditions and tariffs. In December 2018,
the ACM published a new draft SMP decision. PostNL submitted
its opinion on this draft on 14 February 2019. At the time of
writing this report, the ACM had not yet published its final
market decision. If the regulator does not change its initial
approach, our guidance of the negative impact of regulation
may have to be adjusted upwards.

Privacy
In effect since 25 May 2018, the General Data Protection
Regulation (GDPR) is a regulation in EU law on data protection
and privacy for all individuals within the European Union and
the European Economic Area. PostNL implemented the GDPR
and took appropriate measures to comply with this legislation.

Labour conditions
Since January 2018, all postal companies in the Netherlands
have been required to employ at least 80% of their mail
deliverers on the basis of a employment contract/agreement.
Although discussions on labour conditions and compliance
remain, this is an important step towards decent employment
conditions across the entire postal sector. Our mail deliverers
are employed by PostNL and fall under the collective labour
agreement for mail deliverers, which includes a pension
scheme. Almost 100% of our mail deliverers work on the basis
of a labour contract.
Since 2014, PostNL has been investing in a sustainable parcels
market, with fair and competitive working conditions. Part of
this involves maintaining a dialogue with employers,
contractors and social partners to make improvements in
labour conditions and work pressure. In recent years, PostNL
increased the tariffs for delivery partners which deploy parcel
deliverers. The tariffs we apply should be sufficient for
contracted parties to pay their employees in accordance with
the collective labour agreement for the transportation of goods
(BGV-CAO, a binding CLA for the sector). As part of our policy,
we want to deploy more deliverers on the basis of a labour
contract either directly by PostNL or by delivery
partners working for PostNL. We started validating whether
these employees are being paid correctly by
contracted delibery partners during 2018 as part of the
compliance project explained below.
Since 1 January 2017, the Labour Market Fraud (Bogus
Schemes) Act (Wet Aanpak Schijnconstructies) has been
applicable to the transport sector. This law provides that
every party giving an assignment in a chain can be held liable
for underpaying employees of a contractor. During the year we
successfully began a compliance project that aims to ensure
employees of our contracted delivery partners in the
Netherlands are paid correctly. Additionally, contracted parties
are required to employ deliverers under the BGV-CAO and extra
routes for contracted parties are only fulfilled by employees.
The outcome of this compliance project so far, based

12

on a representative amount of completed reviews, is that the
vast majority of contacted parties comply with this regulation.
We stopped working with some of the contracted parties based
on the outcomes of the project. PostNL advocates employment
relationships rather than self-employment. To reduce the
workload we periodically adjust routes and fill in additional
routes with new parcel deliverers employed by PostNL or
employed by contractors working for PostNL. PostNL wants to
remain the favorite deliverer in the Netherlands by being a
social employer and contractor.
In October, PostNL qualified for system supervision through a
successful cooperation with the Human Environment and
Transport Inspectorate (ILT). ILT supervises the requirements
for safe transport, including dangerous goods, and working
conditions. These working conditions are related to working
hours and regulations in loading. In various audits PostNL has
demonstrated the processes to be controlled and to be suitable
for system supervision.

Belgium
The revised Belgian postal law came into effect on 9 February
2018. This law made adjustments to the conditions required to
acquire the license for distributing mail, the narrowing of the
universal service obligation (USO) scope and a modified price
cap formula.

International
In October 2018, the US Department of State announced that it
will initiate a process to withdraw from the Universal Postal
Union. During this year-long process, the US will seek to
renegotiate the terms of the UPU rules for remuneration of
letter mail items containing goods. Depending on their success,
they will decide whether or not to complete the official
withdrawal from the UPU, which would take effect in October
2019. The US may be required to negotiate bilateral and
multilateral agreements to resolve their concerns. When
required, we will review our arrangements with the United
States Postal Service, based on the good working relationship
that we have with them.
The United Kingdom (UK) is scheduled to leave the European
Union on 29 March 2019. Whether this Brexit will be based on a
Withdrawal Agreement with a transition period or without a
ratified agreement, whereby trade between the UK and other
countries will be regulated by World Trade Organization rules, is
still unclear. PostNL is preparing itself for all possible scenarios,
including a possible no-deal scenario.

Digital single market strategy/e-commerce
In 2018 the European Parliament and the European Council
adopted a regulation on cross-border parcel delivery services.
This regulation stipulates market monitoring and tariff
transparency requirements to be reported via the regulator.
Additionally, the regulation requires the national regulator to
assess the tariffs of a limited list of universal postal services that
are considered to be unreasonably high.
As the transparency requirements are limited to public tariffs of
a small list of specified services, we expect the monitoring and
transparency requirement to have an administrative cost
impact only. As our tariffs are in line with the requirements of
the Postal Services Directive for universal services, we do not
expect that the tariff assessment requirement will have an
impact on us.
The European Council also adopted a directive amending value
added tax (VAT) obligations for supplies of services and
distance sales of goods as part of a modernisation to better
facilitate international e-commerce. Part of this directive is the
removal in 2021 of the existing VAT exemption for the
importation of small consignments. This will have an
operational impact on both customs authorities and PostNL.
Discussions with national authorities and the European
Commission on the operational impact and cost are ongoing.

PostNL Driving transition | 4 Our operating context

13

Business report

PostNL Driving transition | Business report

14

5 Value creation and strategy
We create sustainable value for our stakeholders by providing logistic and postal
services. Our value creation model illustrates our value creation process, which
includes the financial and non-financial aspects of how we do business.

Our value creation model outlines trends that influence the
context in which we operate, the short and long-term value
creation process and the effects on stakeholders, which we
categorised in five domains of value creation. The value
creation process starts with the determination of input capital.
We use the capital for our business model to influence or
transform this capital into output capital and outcomes. We link
the outcomes to our key material topics that are

defined to create short, medium and long-term value for the
company, our stakeholders, shareholders, society and the
environment. We believe that investing in non-financial drivers
also helps us create long-term value, for example by improving
customer value and the way we are perceived in society. In
chapters six to ten we describe in detail how we create value for
stakeholders in each of the five domains, as reflected in the
Materiality matrix.

PostNL Driving transition | 5 Value creation and strategy

15

Mega trends and market trends
Mega trends

PostNL has identified three important mega trends that
influence the environment in which we operate:
Urbanisation
Aging population
Climate change
●

●

●

Urbanisation is leading to a concentration of people living in
cities, which increases the demand on logistics and puts
pressure on urban infrastructure as traffic increases. At the
same time, the population is aging and people are living longer
at home. With elderly people more reliant on healthcare, there
is a shift towards health provision at home, which requires a
range of (new) logistic solutions. People are also becoming
more used to having food delivered at home. Finally, transport
is a significant contributor to global climate change and can
have a negative impact on air quality, especially in urban areas.
Society is looking for solutions, and governments are set to
introduce restrictions on pollution-causing transport in an effort
to both combat climate change and improve health.

Market trends
We have also identified four key market trends that are shaping
the lives of our customers and are impacting our strategy:
Growth in e-commerce
Technological developments
Digitalisation
Sustainable society
●

●

rerouting, to meet customer demands. This is balanced by
ensuring that we concentrate on cyber security across our IT
operations.

Digitalisation
Another key market trend is digitalisation. A range of digital
alternatives for mail, such as electronic invoicing, social media
or other digital marketing services contribute to declining mail
market volumes. At the same time, ongoing digitalisation
creates opportunities for us to increase the value we add to
customers and consumers, both for our Parcels and Mail
businesses. For example, in our Parcels segment the use of IT
and data enables us to help customers to better tailor their
services to consumer wishes. And in Mail, we are adding
customer value by offering a range of digital services, such as
the stamp code, through the PostNL app.

Sustainable society
Sustainable developments play a key role in the way society is
changing. Stakeholders are increasingly focusing on the longer
term impact of businesses, including within the logistics and
postal sector. We take our responsibilities seriously and focus
on how we can create a more sustainable company while
addressing the wishes of our stakeholders. For example,
employees expect sustainable labour conditions, customers are
demanding more sustainable delivery options, while consumers
want convenience. At (local) government level, there are
demands to reduce traffic congestion and improve air quality.

●

●

Growth in e-commerce
The continued move from offline to online is leading to the
rapid growth in e-commerce, with people increasingly making
their purchases online. As well as solid domestic e-commerce
growth, we also see a strong increase in the global cross-border
e-commerce market. We expect annual double digit growth
numbers in the global e-commerce market in future years. We
are leveraging on these developments to cement our position
as the leading e-commerce logistics player in the Benelux, by
expanding our delivery options and increasing the number of
value-added services we offer. At the same time, we believe our
comprehensive networks and coverage across the Benelux will
enable the company to bring more traditional markets, such as
food and health, online.

External recognition on sustainability
In 2018, PostNL was again ranked in the top five sustainable
companies worldwide in the transport and logistics sector by
the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). This benchmarks
evaluates listed companies on economic, social and
environmental transparency and performance.
Sustainable development goals
At the heart of the agenda for sustainable development
towards 2030, in 2015 all United Nations (UN) member states
adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). These
goals aim to achieve peace and prosperity for people and the
planet, now and into the future. In 2017 we carried out an SDG
scan that identified two SDGs that are particularly relevant to
PostNL:

Technological developments
Rapid developments in technology impact the way businesses
operate. Current and future trends that will impact our sector
include digitalisation, artificial intelligence (AI) and
robotisation. For example, transforming data into insights is a
key driver to innovate digitally, while online platforms impact
traditional business models and new entrants disrupt
traditional markets. We are using technology and data to
change the way we run the company and provide our services.
For example, data insights and data sharing enable us to
introduce a greater range of tailored delivery options, such as

PostNL Driving transition | 5 Value creation and strategy

More information about our commitment to the SDGs is
included in chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section:
'Reporting principles'.

16

Use of capital

PostNL makes use of valuable assets as input for the business
model, while the model also generates valuable outputs for the
company and our stakeholders.

Relationship capital
We have deep roots in society and connect with millions of
stakeholders on a daily basis through our operations. The
relations we have with our stakeholders, especially customers,
governments and trade unions influence our ability to create
value over time. We strive to build strong relationships through
the way we do business and interact with our stakeholders.

Intellectual and produced capital
The collective knowledge and experience of PostNL, built over
the course of more than two centuries, is one of our greatest
assets. As a logistics expert we have built state-of-the-art
networks, smart processes and created management systems
that have enabled us to become a front runner in our rapidly
changing markets. These are built to help PostNL deliver
high-quality services, optimise our operations and develop new
value-added operations. Produced capital are those goods and
assets that enable us to carry out our role as a logistics and
postal service provider, such as vehicles and machinery. We
select these goods and assets based on our specific needs and
available sustainable options.

PostNL Driving transition | 5 Value creation and strategy

Human capital
PostNL is a people company. We need productive, skilled and
motivated people to execute our strategy and contribute to the
delivery of our services. This includes our own employees and
others working for PostNL. By operating and developing an
inclusive organisation, we aim to help our human capital,
our people, to grow while providing a safe and healthy work
environment.

Natural capital
Natural capital is the energy we use to provide our services. We
use solar energy to generate electricity and natural gas to
operate our buildings and our vehicles, many of which now
run on biogas or electricity. Those that run on diesel or gasoline
produce greenhouse gas (GHG) and air polluting emissions that
impact air quality and contribute to climate change.

Financial capital
Relevant players in financial markets, such as shareholders,
bondholders and banks, provide PostNL with funds used to
invest in our assets and operations. We use this financial capital
to operate and grow our business, and our success has a direct
impact on these investors.

17

Business model

Collecting, sorting and delivering form the core of our business
model. With our committed workforce, we offer customers a
wide range of logistic services through a variety of networks.
Our purpose and guiding principles, which are explained in
chapter 3: Our identity, influence our behaviour and how we will
achieve our objectives, providing clear directions when we
make (strategic) choices in our company.

Purpose and guiding principles

In everything we do we aim to help our customers grow their
business. Collecting parcels and mail is what we have always
done. Our solutions range from fulfillment to food logistics and
from time-critical delivery to installation services. At the same
time we offer consumers simple options to send postcards. We
make receiving easy, providing consumers with a range of
options through our digital platform, such as the PostNL app.
And adding home pick-up returns opens up new markets.

In 2018 we redefined our purpose and the principles that guide
our behaviour. Looking at who we are, what we offer our
customers and how we operate helps us sharpen our
organisation and ensure we continue to focus on providing
customers with the best services and solutions they need and
demand. More information can be found in chapter 3: Our
identity.

We help our customers with delivery options and webshop
integration that fit their selling propositions, and we help
consumers by contributing to a convenient shopping
experience. We offer smart logistic services for senders and
simple solutions for receivers. And we facilitate returns.
Our services are designed to deliver anything, anywhere.

Business activities

We have five strategic objectives, which will help us achieve our
strategy. These are:

Strategic objectives

PostNL adds value for customers through three essential core
activities within the parcels and mail environment: collecting,
sorting and delivering. This is only possible because of the
dense and integrated networks and state-of-the-art processes
that we operate. We provide our services throughout the
Benelux, and beyond the Benelux through our cross-border
solutions. We need to deliver reliably, safely, on time and
conveniently to make a difference and to fulfill the promises we
make to our customers. Our committed workforce makes this
happen.

i. Help customers to grow their business;
ii. Enhance sustainable employability;
iii. Secure accessible and reliable postal services;
iv. Deliver profitable growth and generate a sustainable cash
flow; and
v. Reduce environmental impact.

PostNL Driving transition | 5 Value creation and strategy

18

These five objectives are explained in greater detail in the
Strategy section hereafter.

Our strategy
Our strategy is to accelerate our transformation to become the
logistics and postal solutions provider in the Benelux. We want
to achieve this sustainably, providing customers with a uniform
and consistent experience, no matter how, where or when they
interact with us. At the same time, our goal is to empower our
employees to ensure they are productive, skilled and motivated
so that both they and our customers are satisfied with PostNL.
Below we have outlined the five strategic objectives that will
help us achieve this.

Decision to divest Nexive and Postcon
In 2018, we decided to divest our Italian and German business
lines Nexive and Postcon. We have full confidence that the
management teams in both countries will be able to realise
their strategic ambitions, develop their activities and
strengthen their position in Italy and Germany respectively. We
are making good progress with the divestment processes. We
expect to make further announcements before the summer of
2019. In this Business report we focus on our continuing
operations. More details about the financial impact of the
divestment decision are provided in note 3.8 to the
consolidated financial statements.

Change to mail business model
PostNL wants to ensure postal services remain accessible and
reliable. In 2018 we announced an important change to our
mail business model, which we will implement in 2019. Called
the New mail route, the project will benefit customers, our
people and the company. More information about this new
model can be found at the end of this chapter.

Strategic objectives

Help customers to grow their business
We want to help our customers develop successfully and
profitably, by providing them with services and solutions that
enhance their business. One example is through the expansion
of our retail network, growing our presence and ensuring we are
always close to our customers. Another example is by
strengthening our dense networks. By creating high quality,
modern and flexible data-driven logistic networks we
strengthen our position in the Benelux, enabling further growth
and creating more value for customers and consumers.

Enhance sustainable employability
As one of the largest employers in the Netherlands, we provide
thousands of people with job security, a stable income and
opportunities for personal development and growth. In
addition to providing our people with a safe and healthy work
environment, which is diverse and where they are respected
and enjoy a stimulating and cooperative culture, we also
believe we need to work on sustainable employability. This
means helping our people at all phases of their career to be
skilled and well-trained, highly motivated and in good health to
work for our company or elsewhere, today and in the future.

PostNL Driving transition | 5 Value creation and strategy

Secure accessible and reliable postal services
The ongoing decline in the mail market is having a profound
impact on PostNL and other postal logistics players in the
market, which is why we are reshaping our mail business model
and continue to invest in smart technologies. This will enable us
to keep post relevant and attractive for our customers across
the Benelux. At the same time, we continue to develop
measures to save costs while maintaining the highest possible
service quality and coverage in the Netherlands. We believe
that consolidation within the Dutch postal market is inevitable
if we are to safeguard the reliability and accessibility of the
postal service, while preserving decent labour conditions in
what is a shrinking market. Given our history and competences,
we believe we will have a key role to play in the future postal
market. We actively contribute to the postal dialogue with the
government, regulators and other stakeholders.

Deliver profitable growth and generate a sustainable
cash flow
It is vital that all businesses within PostNL generate sustainable
cash flow, enabling us to achieve profitable growth across our
operations and create value for our investors and the company.
Within Parcels, for example, we are investing in network
capacity, enhancing operational efficiency, focusing on the
customer experience and optimising customer value. This will
enable us to continue to take advantage of the strong growth
within the e-commerce market, while introducing innovative
services and solutions for customers and consumers. Within our
Mail business, we are focusing on continually improving the
customer experience. We are also strengthening operational
excellence and achieving cost savings by optimising our
processes and making our IT structure as effective as possible,
in a declining market by. In our international business, we are
enabling customers and consumers to tap into the growing
global e-commerce market.

Reduce environmental impact
We want to develop our business sustainably while adding
long-term value for our stakeholders. As well as adding value
sustainably for stakeholders such as investors and customers,
we also proactively take responsibility for the environmental
impact of our operations. For example, we continue to set
ambitious targets to reduce our environmental footprint, which
is why our aim is to have emission-free parcel delivery in 25 city
centres across the Netherlands by 2025, and by 2030 to have
emission-free last-mile delivery across the Benelux.

Opportunities in current business propositions
PostNL operates in a dynamic environment, marked by a
declining mail market and opportunities from the growth of
e-commerce. In our Parcels segment, the use of IT and data
provides us with many opportunities to increase the value we
add to customers and consumers, as illustrated in chapter 6:
Customer value. In our Mail business, IT is helping us realise
additional cost savings and add customer value. We continued
to tap into the strong cross-border e-commerce growth, and
launched new services and solutions to support our position as

19

a strong player in the international e-commerce market. Using
data and scale in a smart and efficient way means we can
create operational efficiencies across our businesses. In
addition to these opportunities, we have identified three
growth domains: convenient shopping, network logistics and
connected community, which are outlined below.

elderly people connected to care institutions. This is a
business-to-business service that aims to improve matching,
planning and administration between care institutions and
home care providers. We believe health is an important growth
sector in the logistics market and expect to see an increase in
demand for such solutions in the future.

Convenient shopping

Main risks

The world is changing, and the internet means we are shopping
across borders, 24/7, while enjoying the convenience of having
our goods delivered anytime, anywhere. Our strength along the
logistics chain, from first-mile collection to last-mile delivery,
means we can act as a strategic partner to e-tailers, opening up
new markets and creating new opportunities for PostNL.

Network logistics
There has been a sharp rise in the number of goods bought and
sold around the world. Ensuring these goods are delivered at
the right time, to the right place, requires a large, reliable, innovative network. Customers and consumers have increasingly
high expectations about the way goods are delivered,
demanding greater control over delivery time and location.
Using our strong distribution network, we open up the world
and connect the Benelux.

Connected community
Our society is changing. Increasing numbers of people are
moving to cities. And while they are getting older, they still
want to live independently. Access is becoming more important
than ownership. This is having an impact on the care market,
with the delivery of medicine, medical devices, consumables
and other related products and services at home becoming
increasingly important. The combination of our unique mix of
networks and our trusted brand in the Netherlands positions us
perfectly to provide a variety of services in this area.

New business propositions
PostNL actively seeks to develop alternative growth domains
which are related to our core logistic propositions to create and
provide opportunities for future growth, such as in the food or
health segments. We identify three ways of developing these
growth domains through our own startups, co-investments and
acquisitions.
To help support our aim of developing a future-proof business
portfolio, in 2016 we decided to invest in an equity fund, Endeit,
with a maximum commitment of €6 million. This investment
means we are better able to access and cooperate with
companies connected to our growth domains.
In 2018 we co-invested with Henkel, a chemical and consumer
goods company, in Dobbi, an online laundry and dry cleaning
service. Dobbi was recognised as the most innovative new
business in its market, and currently has a coverage of around
70% of the Netherlands. Another important new co-investment
we made in 2018 was in Roamler Care, This home care platform
connects self-employed home care providers with sick or

PostNL Driving transition | 5 Value creation and strategy

We continually work to manage our exposure to the main risks
impacting our business such as competition, the declining mail
market, challenging regulatory environment, network peak
capacity, execution of strategic change and cost saving
initiatives. The risks below represent the highest level risks
identified in chapter 14: Risk management.

Competition
We are faced with increasing competition particularly in our
parcels and international businesses, as markets become more
competitive and volatile, which continues to put pressure on
our market share, volumes and prices and may have an adverse
effect on revenues and profitability. This risk is relevant for the
following key material topics in the Business report: Financial
performance and position; Customer experience; Manage
growth in e-commerce.

Declining mail market
The volume of mail is continuing to decrease, which requires us
to adapt our infrastructure and delivery processes. Substitution
or alternatives to our delivery services may reduce revenues
and profitability. This risk is relevant for the following key
material topics in the Business report: Financial performance
and position; Manage declining mail volumes; Accessible and
reliable postal services.

Challenging regulatory environment
We are confronted with complex legal and regulatory
requirements in the countries in which we operate. Changes in
legal and regulatory requirements may continue to have an
adverse material impact on our business operations, our
reputation and on our financial performance. This risk is
relevant for the following key material topics in the Business
report: Financial performance and position; Accessible and
reliable postal services; Emission free delivery.

Execution of cost-saving initiatives
Technical complexity as well as inter-dependencies among
multiple change projects may cause delays in successfully
completing all projects. This may have an adverse material
effect on our mid- and long-term targets in relation to cost
savings. This risk is relevant for the following key material topics
in the Business report: Financial performance and position,
manage declining mail volumes.
These and other risks as well as our mitigating actions are
discussed in greater detail in chapter 14: Risk management.

20

PostNL Driving transition | 5 Value creation and strategy

21

6 Customer value
Our ambition is to be everyone's favourite deliverer and connect millions of senders
and receivers every day. In today's competitive market, loyal customers are essential
to our success, and we want to provide our customers with services and solutions that
enhance their business. This relates both to our ability to manage the growth in
e-commerce and in securing accessible and reliable postal services.

Key results and highlights
In 2018 our Parcels business grew strongly, while ongoing
digitalisation led to the expected volume decline in our Mail
business. We continued to develop innovative services that
provide consumers with faster, cheaper and more convenient
delivery options. The growth in parcel volumes is helping with
our transformation into a logistics e-commerce company. In
2018, 48% of our revenue came from e-commerce, and we
expect to achieve our target of 50% by 2020 ahead of schedule.
While mail volumes in the Netherlands continue to decline the
targets set under the universal service obligation (USO) to
deliver mail accurately and on time to all households across the
country remain unchanged. In 2018 we met this target,
ensuring that 95% of consumer mail was delivered within
24-hours.
We made important changes across our businesses and IT
environment to help improve the customer experience over the
long term, and enable us to keep pace with volume
developments. Some of these changes were challenging and
proved to be more difficult than expected, impacting our
customer experience. In our Mail business we experienced a
temporary shortage of mail deliverers in certain locations. And
although we expanded our Parcels capacity, it proved
challenging in 2018 to keep up with the volume growth. These
factors put pressure on the quality of our services, and as a
result negatively impacted the percentage of highly satisfied
customers. The company-wide percentage of highly satisfied
business customers fell to 30% in 2018 from 41% in 2017.
However, overall customer satisfaction remained high, with
only a slight decrease from 85% to 82% year-on-year.

During the year we continued to enhance our logistic networks
and customer services along the value chain, as we work to help
customers grow their business. This includes a range of
interconnected activities, such as developing solutions that
help consumers shop and customers sell more easily,
expanding our logistic services for senders, and improving our
last-mile solutions for receivers, including return solutions.
For example, we further developed our online platforms, where
we are providing business customers and consumers with a
greater range of products and delivery solutions when they
want to ship their goods. We also added new services and
features to Mijn Post in the PostNL app.
Within our food logistics offering, we expanded our delivery
solutions and enlarged our customer base. For one new
customer, Marley Spoon, we are delivering food ingredients in
our reusable cool boxes, which keeps perishables fresh during
the delivery process.
And as we strive to provide customers and consumers with
more control over their delivery, our option to reroute parcels
before the first delivery attempt continued to prove extremely
popular. It was used 1.7 million times in 2018, up from 0.5
million times in 2017.
In 2018, the annual independent survey carried out by RepTrak
showed that our reputation score remains high, despite a
decrease of two points to 67.7 (2017: 69.7). While our baseline
service levels remained high in 2018, we will continue to focus
on improving the customer experience to increase our
customer value.
This chapter provides more detailed information about how we
create value to our customers.

PostNL Driving transition | 6 Customer value

22

Main developments
In addition to customer experience, managing the growth in
e-commerce and securing accessible and reliable postal
services are key priorities for PostNL. In 2018 we saw continued
growth in the parcels market, while mail market volumes
declined as expected. Our focus was on continuing to act as a
reliable business partner for our customers and consumers,
understanding their needs and providing seamless, high quality
and sustainable services. Within our Parcels segment, we
continued to innovate and worked on ensuring our network
capacity and the quality of our services met customer
expectations. Within Mail, we continued to rationalise our
current product portfolio and adjust our networks to the volume
decline. Simultaneously, we keep developing new added-value
services in order to stay a vital player in the market. Providing
customers with services along the entire logistic value chain is
increasingly important as business customers and consumers
look for ways to diversify and broaden their online offerings.
As part of this strategy we chose to streamline a number
of services, such as integrating our direct mail and digital
marketing businesses, while continuing to focus on the
importance of mail in society and developing e-commerce
related services. These included City Logistics, home pick-up
returns and the introduction of additional services in the
PostNL app. We also contributed to one CRM and continued to
expand our online service channels as part of our strategy.

Digital propositions
Another way in which we add value to the first segment of
the logistic value chain is by making use of data. For example,
our new rerouting option for consumers creates valuable data
on favourable delivery options, enabling us to further increase
the value we add to our business partners. Using our dense and
growing retail network, consumers can reroute their parcels to
retail shops close to their homes.
Adeptiv
In 2018 we took the final steps towards integrating our direct
mail and digital marketing businesses Yourzine, Searchresult
and Cendris into a rebranded company, called Adeptiv.
Daan, the digital assistant from PostNL
In 2018 we rolled out Daan, a Dutch-language digital assistant
that aims to answer questions customers might have about
PostNL. For example, where the nearest PostNL location or
post box is, or when will we deliver their package. Users can also
log into their PostNL account and Daan will let them know if
they can change their package’s delivery time or location.
A strong example of artificial intelligence, Daan will learn and
improve as it is used by customers. The system is available for
Android and iOS smartphone users, and is designed to
supplement the PostNL app, website and our customer service
operations.

Mail propositions

Shopping and selling
PostNL plays an active role in the first phase of the logistic value
chain. We help our customers by adding delivery options to
their selling propositions, and help consumers by contributing
to a convenient shopping experience. Our aim is to bring
innovative new value propositions to the market.

Platform developments
Online platforms have been embraced by consumers and
continue to create significant changes to traditional business
models. In 2018 we continued to develop our online platforms,
providing business customers and consumers with a
greater range of products and delivery solutions when they
want to ship their goods. One example is our API platform,
which provides customers with a set of application
programming interfaces, or APIs. Online customers, such as
e-tailers, can embed an application in their website and offer
customers our broad selection of delivery options, such as
next-day or evening delivery. Another key platform
development is our digital environment, which led to a growth
of PostNL accounts from 3.3 to 4.4 million during 2018.
Through our website and PostNL app, we offered users with a
broader range of online services in 2018.

PostNL Driving transition | 6 Customer value

PostNL Communication Services
As mail volumes continue to decline, we are working hard on
tailoring the product portfolio of our communication services.
For example, by combining our Direct Mail, Printing on Demand
and Transaction Mail services, we provide customers with a
broad range of services in one location. This is more convenient
and efficient. In 2018 we also began focusing on multichannel
customer communication and customer interaction, and
continued to look for cost efficiencies by rationalising our
physical operations and adjusting our logistic footprint.
Spotta
In 2018, the city of Amsterdam introduced a new opt-in
letterbox sticker system, with residents who want to continue
receiving door-to-door newspapers and advertising material
now having to place a ‘Yes-Yes’ sticker on their letterboxes.
Under the old system, printed advertising material could be
delivered to any letterbox without a sticker.
While this form of mail remains both important and well-read,
this move will have an impact on the volume of unaddressed
mail delivered by companies such as Spotta. These volumes are
already under pressure due to digitalisation, and price
competition is fierce. Just like others in the market, Spotta has
lodged an appeal against the introduction of the new sticker
system in Amsterdam, which is due to be heard in court in
March 2019.

23

Consumer propositions
Enhancing digital services
By year-end, 4.4 million people were connected to PostNL via a
digital account and 571,000 users had activated the Mijn Post
option in the PostNL app. This service provides users a
notification and digital preview of the mail that we will deliver to
them that day. We aim to expand our services related to mail
available in the app in 2019 and aim to have 2 million Mijn Post
users by 2020.
For business customers, we introduced the option to interact
with consumers directly through Mijn Post in the PostNL app,
for example by including a link to their web page in the digital
notification. Plein.nl, a personal care e-tailer, was one of the
first customers to use the new service and have been
enthusiastic about the results, with a significant number of
consumers clicking through to visit the Plein.nl website. We also
continued to attract a range of businesses, both large and
small, who look to us to develop smart digital tools that bring
the on- and offline worlds together.
Another popular service is the stamp code, which lets users pay
for a stamp through the app. They receive a nine-digit code
which they can write on the envelope in place of a stamp. In
2018 we sold around 800,000 stamps and our goal for 2019 is
to double these volumes.
In 2018 we also worked with post and media company Hallmark
to launch a service that lets users send a physical photo card
through the mail, which they order through the app. Thousands
of cards have been sent since its introduction at the end of
2018.

Time-critical networks
Convenient parcel delivery times
Operating the densest transport network in the Benelux and
utilising its integrated IT platforms, our time-critical network
enables us to provide customers with a choice of delivery
solutions, depending on their individual needs.
Making 40,000 stops per day across the Netherlands, our
time-critical network is also the country’s largest and acts as an
increasingly vital service link for our retail locations, collecting
(first-mile) and delivering (last-mile) for both parcels and mail.
Based on the internal competences of this network we are now
offering customers a number of new and innovative services,
such as delivery from store for two fashion brands, and return
on demand for Zalando. For example, in Rotterdam and
Amsterdam we offer Zalando customers scheduled one-hour
timeslots, where we collect the parcel they want to return
within an hour of them contacting us. This service is available
between 8:00 am and 9:00 pm, Monday to Friday.
PostNL Express
In 2018 we rebranded Valid Express to PostNL Express. The
company provides customers with a highly flexible service
designed to give them maximum control over the time and
place of delivery. This includes guaranteed delivery, priority,
overnight, or same-day courier delivery, specialised delivery of
(confidential) documents and packets and 24/7 availability.

PostNL provides a wide range of logistics options for senders,
depending on the nature of parcels and mail, time preferences
and services beyond our core delivery process.

Funeral and medical mail
In our Mail business, we have specific processes to collect, sort
and deliver funeral and medical mail. These products are highly
time critical and our business model is set up in such a way that
we deliver these mail streams within 24 hours of collection, six
days a week. In cooperation with the funeral sector, we
developed a special envelope that lets customers send over 30
funeral cards at once, giving them the confidence that these
important cards will be handled with special care and delivered
on time to the right address.

Fulfillment solutions

International

Logistic services for senders

At the front-end of our logistic processes, we help customers by
providing smart fulfillment solutions aimed at creating
efficiency gains in high volume delivery. In 2018 we completed
the implementation of the robotised warehouse fulfilment
service that we introduced at our Houten fulfilment centre in
2017. This scalable system allows us to store and access our
products faster and more reliably than when done by hand, and
gives us greater control over deliveries to the customer and
consumer. By year-end, we were using the new system to fulfil
orders and international returns for a growing number
of e-tailers and platforms. Another area where we have
expanded our services is food fulfillment. These services aim to
reduce steps in the value chain, by combining our fulfillment
capabilities with our delivery networks.

PostNL Driving transition | 6 Customer value

Cross-border delivery services
For our customers in the Netherlands, we offer cross-border
delivery solutions under the PostNL brand. We work
continuously on offering a more convenient and integrated
experience to customers in the Netherlands who have shipping
needs that go beyond our borders, and in 2018 made strong
progress towards reaching our goal of offering one integrated
cross-border e-commerce portfolio. Business customers looking
to export goods of different sizes and weights are now able to
make use of our most popular solutions via one convenient
portal instead of through several different portals. This is an
important improvement over previous years; it unburdens our
exporting business customers and contributes to our aim of
operating as OnePostNL.

24

For international customers, we offer cross-border delivery
solutions under the Spring brand. Spring is our international
provider of mail, parcels and return solutions to businesses
worldwide, handling international deliveries across the most
reliable networks. In 2018 the competitive environment remained fierce, especially in Asia, with mail and parcel deliverers
moving into the market. At the same time, low-cost deliverers,
mainly regional postal operators, continued to aggressively
take a share of this market. This put pressure on our margins
and resulted in a drop in performance compared to 2017.
We continued to act as a broker offering solutions across 14
countries. We have local presence in Asia, for example. Our
Asian customer base consists predominantly of e-commerce
platforms and consolidators, combining the large volumes
generated by local sales platforms. In 2018 we further
decentralised the development of our solutions, so that we can
better meet the needs of our customers in Asia. Leveraging our
local presence means we are able to maximize customer value
by tailoring solutions to specific customer needs along their
supply chain. In Europe, we began implementing our advanced
customer-facing shipping platform, which we will further roll
out in 2019. We also extended cooperation with platforms
across the continent to expand our reach. We also began
partnering with the MyParcel.com platform, and together we
are working on rolling the platform out across Europe.

Tailored networks
Many of our customers require highly specialised delivery
options, from transporting perishable or fragile goods, to early
morning or late night deliveries.
Food logistics
We are expanding our logistic solutions in order to meet both
customer expectations and the growth of e-commerce. As part
of this strategy, we continued to expand our food delivery
solutions in 2018, introducing the delivery of groceries, meal
boxes and other fresh food products to customers between
8.00 and 13.00, in a time window of 30 minutes, a service we
offer next to our already existing evening delivery. We currently
deliver for more than 50 food suppliers and continue to grow
the customer base of our food box. Not only does the food box
allow us to transport fresh products at the right temperature, it
can also be reused up to 500 times. One example is Marley
Spoon, an online food supplier, who we began helping with
food deliveries in 2018.
In Belgium we introduced food delivery seven days a week and
evening delivery five days a week. We also now provide
consumers with a specific delivery window.
During the year we introduced a real-time feature via the
PostNL app that enables users to track the progress of their
food package along the deliverer’s route. This means they can
predict with far greater accuracy when their package will arrive,
creating a more precise delivery window.

PostNL Driving transition | 6 Customer value

Health logistics
We believe we can add customer value within the changing
health environment using our logistic solutions, and are actively
looking at opportunities to work with other parties to make this
happen. For example, wholesalers selling to hospitals and
pharmacies already deliver pallets to us, which we then split.
The smaller parcels for pharmacies are delivered through our
parcel network, while the pallets are delivered to hospitals
through our cargo network. We also provide hospitals with a
pallet and parcel consolidation service, creating a faster, more
efficient service. Pharma & Care distributes goods which are
temperature-controlled to pharmacies, health centres and
hospitals. In 2018 we continued to develop our delivery
consolidation service for hospitals in the Netherlands, which we
already offer in Belgium. This provides hospitals with a faster,
more efficient service.

25

PostNL Driving transition | 6 Customer value

26

Mikropakket
Mikropakket is our high-value goods delivery network, which
specialises in securely transporting goods such as mobile
phones, jewellery, and medicines. During the year the company
consolidated and strengthened the market-leading position it
holds within its chosen segment. We extended several large
existing contracts and securing new customers, for example in
pharmaceuticals and media. It also sees growth potential for
the distribution of e-bike batteries, which are subject to very
strict transport rules.

@Home services
Our ambition within the @Home market is to be the leading
logistics company that delivers and installs for a wide variety of
goods and services. From white goods and electronics to
medical and (garden) furniture, we are developing a broad
range of delivery capabilities, ensuring that we are able to offer
customers the right solution across all of our focus areas.
For retailer Coolblue we introduced a complete shipping and
installation service in 2018, giving consumers the option to
have their new TV, washing machine or fridge installed and set
up as well as being delivered. We also grew JP Haarlem
Delivery, the high-end furniture delivery and assembly
specialist we purchased in 2017, as consumers increasingly
select expert installation services combined with reliable
delivery. Overall, the total number of customer deliveries by
Extra@Home grew by over 15% year-on-year.

Last-mile solutions for receivers

Delivery options made easy

We offer receivers a range of delivery options to a range of
delivery locations, meaning there is always a solution that fits
their needs. For example, they can choose to have their
delivery sent to:
A physical address
A retail location
A parcel locker
One of the 800 P.O. box locations we operate across the
country.
●

●

●

●

Customers having more control over the delivery
Rerouting before the first attempt
We strive to optimise our last-mile parcel delivery by putting
the consumer more in control of the delivery. One example is
the option to reroute parcels before the first delivery attempt,
which enables consumers to change the delivery time and
location of their parcel before the first planned delivery.
Our rerouting service continued to prove extremely popular
across the Netherlands, and was used 1.7 million times in 2018
(2017: 0.5 million).

PostNL Driving transition | 6 Customer value

Track & Trace
Our Track & Trace service lets senders and receivers track the
status of any registered letter or parcel sent with us, so that
they know when it will be delivered to them.
Change of address services
We want customers to receive their mail without interruption,
whether they go on holiday for a few weeks or move to a new
home. Our change of address and mail forwarding services let
customers choose to have their mail redirected to a new
address for a period of between one week and a year, meaning
their post always knows where they are.

Returns
We are expanding our returns services, benefitting customers
by enabling them to expand their service offering and
consumers by making it easier to return online orders. At the
same time, the services increase both the sustainability and the
efficiency of our operations and services. We are also working
with our customers to develop innovative packaging solutions
that are more sustainable and efficient. Below are examples of
services we introduced in 2018, and one that we launched at
the beginning of 2019 .

Home pick-up returns
We now offer e-tailers the option to provide consumers with a
home pick-up returns service, making returning goods ordered
online incredibly simple. Consumers can make an appointment
for us to collect their parcel in a two-hour pick-up window, on
the same day or a day of their choice.

Packaging pilot with FuturumShop
In 2018 we began a pilot with FuturumShop, an e-tailer in the
Netherlands, to test the use of reusable packaging. The
specially developed packaging is made of flexible material that
takes the form of the product, reducing the amount of air in the
parcel and thus its size. This results in a more efficient and
sustainable delivery process. And because the packaging can
be reused up to 1,000 times, one piece has the potential to save
over 130 kilogrammes of cardboard. As well as having their
goods delivered more sustainably, consumers benefit by no
longer having to dispose of packing material at home; they can
simply return the reusable pack to the deliverer.

Return packages with the deliverer
At the beginning of 2019 we introduced our latest returns
option in the Netherlands, which lets consumers return their
parcel with a deliverer who is already at the door. As well as
being more convenient for consumers and online shops and
e-tailers, the service is also sustainable as it saves the consumer
from having to make a trip to one of our parcel drop off points.

27

7 Operational value
We operate in a dynamic environment. Our Parcels business is taking advantage of the
rapid growth in e-commerce, while our Mail business is managing declining mail
volumes of around 10% year-on-year. At the same time, consumers are increasingly
focused on gaining access to the most convenient delivery options, with shorter
delivery times and greater delivery flexibility. This requires us to continue to focus on
operational excellence while providing deliveries anytime, anywhere.

Key results and highlights
Parcel and mail market developments are influencing our
transition into an e-commerce logistic company. During 2018
we collected, sorted and delivered 21.5% more parcels than in
2017, delivering on average 800,000 parcels daily. To manage
this growth and prepare for future development, we opened
three new parcel sorting and delivery centres. In 2019 we
will also open three new sorting centres. We also expanded our
delivery capacity in Belgium to match the business growth.
The ongoing decline in physical mail being sent led to a 10.7%
decline in our mail volumes. As a result, we continued to
restructure our organisation, which included closing down our
sorting centre in The Hague. We also reduced the number of
preparation centres we operate from 44 to 38, and merged our
international parcels and mail sorting centres into one
integrated location, called IMEC, in The Hague. The sorting
centre we vacated in The Hague is now being used for
international PostNL activities.

The growth in parcels and decline in mail had a significant
impact on our operations. To help deal with this, we
implemented a number of measures to adjust our collecting,
sorting and delivery capacity and we focused on optimising our
processes and IT effectiveness. One example is streamlining
collection within our time-bound network, which helps us
increase the quality of pick-ups in the narrow time windows we
offer our customers.
To enhance the sorting capacity within our Parcels segment, we
opened new sorting and delivery centres across the Benelux.
And in Mail, we continued to roll out the sorting machine
coding, which adds codes to envelopes, helping us simplify our
preparation process.
We also made strong developments in our delivery capabilities.
For example, we expanded the number of pick-up points in
retail locations, and we the introduced the Combibundel, which
enables us to improve the efficiency of our sorting process.

In 2018 we achieved further cost savings of €48 million, as
expected slightly below our initial guidance of €50 million to
€70 million. These cost savings came primarily from the
reorganisation of our overheads and operational management
at our Mail business. We are also adapting our business model
and will introduce the New mail route in 2019. Our aim is to
achieve significant cost savings through this renewed model
going forward, enabling us to keep pace with volume declines.

This chapter provides more detailed information about how we
create operational value.

PostNL Driving transition | 7 Operational value

28

Main developments
Our Parcels and Mail businesses continue to focus on
adaptability to change and increase operational efficiencies.
These changes and improvements include greater automation,
digital solutions and IT developments. Our aim is to contribute
to a better customer experience, while also saving costs. Our
operational services can be divided in three domains: collect,
sort and deliver. In each of these domains, we made
improvements during 2018.

In our Mail business, we continued to centralise our mail sorting
centres, reducing the number from six to five. We also closed 6
out of 44 preparation centres. At the same time, we decided to
merge a number of staff functions, achieving greater efficiency
and cost savings. Where possible, we housed other PostNL
activities in the buildings we vacated.

Collecting

Time-critical networks
Large volumes of parcels and mail are generally delivered by
our customers to our sorting and delivery centres. However, the
collection of smaller volumes is carried out by our time-critical
network (TGN). This network plays an important role in our
business, for example by emptying letter boxes and collecting
parcels from retail locations. We also use TGN's capacity to
deliver parcels and mail to smaller customers, and to make
parcel deliveries in the evenings and on Sundays. In 2018 we
managed to increase the use of our capacity in our car fleet. We
also worked on planning our routes more efficiently, for
example by delivering our collected parcels from small
businesses directly to the Parcel sorting centres.
In 2018, we started testing time frame indication in collection
for 10 business customers. This test provides us insights in the
customer preferences in our communication on pickup times in
our collection, which help to increase our efficiency.
The added value of this network is the ability to integrate
different solutions, meaning we can use our collection and
time-critical delivery capacity to the full, while planning our
routes efficiently. We have started to invest in low emission
alternatives for our cars, for example by using e-cargo bikes
where possible. We plan to further develop our
time-critical network commercially and sustainably.

Increasing our retail network
To keep pace with the growth in e-commerce, and the
increasing numbers of parcels we deliver, in 2018 we opened
more than 200 retail locations in the Netherlands. Our dense
and growing retail network means that consumers can reroute
their parcels to retail shops closer to their homes, making the
delivery process even more convenient.

Sorting

Physical capacity developments
During 2018 we further increased the efficiency of our sorting
and delivery centres within Parcels, and expanded the number
of parcel sorting machines in operation. One example is the
addition of about 4% sorting capacity in our existing sorting
centres by adding sorting lanes. Another example is the
extension of the daily sorting time frame. We also opened three
new sorting and delivery centres, increasing our parcel delivery
capacity. We will continue to grow our capacity to keep pace
with the parcel volume growth.

PostNL Driving transition | 7 Operational value

In 2018 we brought together the processes of Mail, Parcels and
our time-critical network at our sorting and processing centre
on the edge of Amsterdam. This means we can maximise the
efficiency of employees, resources and products. For example,
bike logistics from our time-critical network now makes evening
deliveries for our Parcels business in Amsterdam.
For our international volumes in the Netherlands, we
centralised our IMEC export and import locations from three
centres to one in the Netherlands. IMEC processes mail,
letterbox parcels and parcels. This change has enabled us to
utilise transport and system synergies, helping us reduce costs
and increase quality.

29

orders for customers. We also stopped active sales of services
from PostNL Communication Services and Customer
Excellence. Another service we ended in 2018 is the temporary
storing of customers' mail, for example when they are on
holiday.

Enhancement of coding system (codeerregel)
Over the last few years we have invested strongly in
automatisation, with the aim of increasing delivery quality and
efficiency. In 2018 we continued to roll out the sorting machine
coding (SMC), which adds codes to envelopes. Coding helps us
to simplify our preparation process and introduces more
flexibility when realising delivery route optimisation.
We also invested in machine and deep learning software that
improves the quality of the coding machines, which has
resulted in a significant improvement in the automatic
recognition and correction of addresses. This improves the
quality of our coding and saves costs, as less coding has to be
done manually.
Similar to 2017, we saw little progress on our goal to increase
the automatic sequence sorting. We have implemented this on
our SMK (Sorting Machine Small) and the 65% of our mail
volumes sequence sorted automatically remained stable in
2018. We will start implementing this way of sorting on our
SMX (Sorting machine extra) machines in 2019 in order to
achieve our goal of 85% by 2020.

Delivering

Adjustment to delivery capacity
During 2018 we continued to hire additional parcel deliverers
and drivers for our large trucks, to keep pace with the growth in
delivery demands. While our delivery capacity has increased,
we continue to face challenges, particularly in peak periods.
Using data steering, we are better able to connect customer
and consumer needs to our delivery options. This has led to a
greater flow of parcels to our retail locations.

Robotics in sorting centres
We began testing a robotic automation project in 2018 in our
parcel sorting centre in Den Hoorn. The project uses a robotic
arm to move parcels from roll containers onto the sorting
machine, increasing efficiency and reducing the physical
impact on workers who have to move the parcels manually. We
also implemented an automatic warehouse in our fulfillment
centre in Houten. This helps us reducing order-pick time and
create efficiencies in our processes.

Product rationalisation mail
In 2018 we further rationalised our product portfolio by
removing a total of 28 services and 54 product codes from our
Mail business, all of which were deemed non-core. This is an
example of our focus on costs savings and profitability. By
focusing on core services and products we believe we can add
more value to our customers. For example, we closed our online
printing service shop, although will still process larger print

PostNL Driving transition | 7 Operational value

Optimise mix of vehicles
We continuously review how we can improve our delivery
methods. Given the different locations we deliver to, from city
centres to rural areas, we do not have a one-size-fits-all delivery
model. In 2018 we continued to increase the number of e-cargo
bikes we use, while reducing the number of vans. Not only does
this improve our own efficiency by cutting costs, it also helps us
minimise our environmental impact and contributes to a more
liveable society.

Introduction of Combibundel
In 2018 we began rolling out the Combibundel, which involves
sorting mail into two separate bundles: one containing small
items of mail and one with larger items. This creates a more
efficient sorting process as we no longer have to combine small
and large mail items in the sorting centres. We continue to work
with deliverers to develop different ways to make the delivery
process more efficient. In 2018 we also worked with the works

30

council of production, and improved the way we
communicate with our employees, to help create greater
acceptance of the Combibundel among deliverers.
While delays to the roll out of both the coding system and the
Combibundel in 2018 meant we were not able to achieve the
cost savings we had anticipated, we now expect both programs
to be fully rolled out by the middle of 2019. This will help us
continue to target cost savings and efficiencies, with the coding
improvements and the Combibundel vital to the success of our
new delivery model, New mail route. This model will result in
the mail being available sooner and longer routes for our
deliverers.

Predict delivery success rate
Using artificial intelligence (AI), we continued to fine-tune
algorithms that help us better predict when a second delivery
attempt will be successful. Greater success increases customer
satisfaction, and cuts our journey times and costs. AI also helps
us better predict the capacity of retail locations, enabling us to
reroute parcels to other locations and use capacity more
efficiently.

Expanding our operational services
We introduced time-frame indication in the PostNL app for
Belgium-based consumers and we will focus on continuously
improving this service to increase our delivery quality and
operational efficiency. The option to reroute a parcel before the
first delivery attempt is also aimed at increasing the hit-rate of
our parcel delivery.

Developing retail locations
One aspect of our focus on customer experience is to provide
consumers with a greater range of options to pick up their
parcels close to their homes. This is why we increased the
number of pick-up points in retail locations to more than 3,200
from 3,000 in 2017, highlighting how we work to strengthen our
infrastructure. We also continued to develop our "Scan & Go"
service at retail locations for customers who prepared their
parcels online. Customers can scan the parcel code they have
generated on their app, print the label and drop off the parcel.
And we continued to develop our self-service parcel lockers,
which let consumers pick up parcels at various locations across
the country.

Self-management
In 2018 we introduced an initiative called self-management,
which provides mail deliverers with greater choice over their
work. Deliverers can now select additional delivery routes
through their work app, based on an overview of available
routes. This provides deliverers with greater choice over their
own workload. It also creates greater efficiency as the planning
and selection of routes becomes faster. The new system was
developed with direct input from deliverers and is a good
example of more agile working within PostNL. Going forward,
employees will increasingly be in control of their own work and
will make greater use of digital resources.

Responding to increase in traffic congestion
The rapid growth of e-commerce, in combination with the rise
of urbanisation, will lead to a sharp rise in the number of parcels
being delivered. With the majority of parcels being delivered by
van to cities and urban areas, continuous growth will quickly
lead to serious traffic congestion issues. Many of our vans now
run on biogas or electricity, and we are continuing to grow their
numbers. While those that run on diesel or petrol do produce
emissions such as greenhouse gases (GHG), NOx and PM10, we
are continuing to reduce their number within our fleet.

PostNL Driving transition | 7 Operational value

31

PostNL has been experimenting with new types of vehicles,
such as e-cargo bikes and electric vans for our last-mile delivery.
Tackling congestion issues will require a multi-stakeholder
approach however. In 2018 we launched a company-wide
program called City Logistics, with the aim of leading the
debate about the future of logistics in cities, thereby developing
solutions in cooperation with stakeholders. More on City
Logistics can be found in chapter 9: Environmental value.

Delivering successfully over the Sinterklaas and
Christmas peak period
We again processed extremely high seasonal parcel volumes
during the last two months of the year. We successfully
delivered tens of million parcels over the course of November
and December. The week between Black Friday (the fourth
Friday in November) and Sinterklaas (5 December) and the
weeks between Sinterklaas and Christmas showed the highest
volume peaks. On our highest peak day, we delivered 1.4 million
parcels.

PostNL Driving transition | 7 Operational value

32

8 Social value
The markets PostNL operates in are changing rapidly, impacting everyone who works
for or with us. We aim to be a responsible employer that empowers our people to
realise their full potential and feel they can make a difference to our customers. And
we value our social impact, from the role we play providing accessible and reliable
postal services, through to employing approximately 38,000 people.

Key results and highlights
With 37,785 employees, PostNL is a large employer in the
Netherlands. On average our own employees make up around
75% of our total workforce. We deliver quality services to every
street and every house across the country, every week of
the year. Quality that our customers trust the people of PostNL
to deliver, which is why it is vital that our people feel
empowered to make a difference.
We currently measure our employee engagement annually. In
2018 we were unable to improve our employee engagement
score, with this key performance indicator dropping two
percentage points to 65%. Our other key performance
indicator, employee loyalty, increased by two percentage
points, with 88% of our employees indicating that they expect
to stay with PostNL. The response rate also increased, to 62%
in 2018 from 60% in 2017. These results indicate that our
employees are not only critical but also loyal to us as an
employer.

We also published our diversity and inclusion policy built on six
elements. We focus on creating a work environment in which
everyone feels safe and is provided with development
opportunities to maximise their potential. We stimulate
diversity in age, gender, ethnic background, sexual preference
and distance to the labour market, and recognise that diversity
in mindset and abilities is crucial to succeed as a company.
And within Mail, we worked closely with the works council to
develop the New mail route, which we will introduce during the
course of 2019. This will enable us to provide a large number of
our employees with additional contractual hours, securing their
job and income for as long as possible.
This chapter provides more detailed information about how we
create value to our people.

The main reasons for the decrease in employee engagement
relate to capacity planning and work pressure. Based on this
feedback, we launched several initiatives to improve our
performance, which we will measure again in the second
quarter of 2019. The results of our survey also showed that, in
general, our employees like their work and are particularly
positive about their working relationship with direct colleagues
and managers.
We also made advances across a number of other important
areas. For example, we made strong progress with internal
mobility and our employability policy, which means people
from within PostNL can more easily switch between business
units, without losing seniority.

PostNL Driving transition | 8 Social value

33

Main developments
Our people

PostNL provides direct and indirect employment to around
50,000 people. 90% of our people is directly of indirectly
employed via a labour contact and PostNL directly employs
around 38,000 people. We have a clear strategy to help our
employees develop and feel empowered within the company.
We also provide indirect employment through contracted
partners. This large group of approximately 12,000 people on
average are parcel deliverers, other drivers, sorting employees
from contractors and temporary workers. These provide us with
flexibility to deal with our seasonal businesses. In peak periods,
we scale up our own employees, attract temporary workers and
scale up through our partners. PostNL also employs a relatively
large group of people with a distance to the labour market. We
aim to provide favourable work conditions for our entire
workforce. For our indirect workforce we aim to provide fair
compensation, attractive work packages as well as a safe and
pleasant work environment, while for our people we also focus
on diversity and development. On 19 February 2019, we
announced that we are going to make the switch from
outsourcing sorting processes through contracting to hiring
temporary workers. We will start phasing out our contracting
model in 2019.

The decline in mail volumes requires PostNL to continuously
optimise its business model. Restructuring is a key element in
this optimisation, which impacts our people. For example,
employees experience changes to their work and may feel
uncertain about the future. Many employees in our Mail
business have part-time contracts, and it is relatively easy for
employees to switch jobs in the current labour market. This is
one of the reasons why we continued to focus on internal
mobility in 2018, which gives employees the chance to move to
a new job between our business segments.

Our priority is on four areas:
Managing personnel capacity
Making connections
Remaining healthy
Realising change.
●

●

●

●

In addition to these four areas, PostNL continues to focus on
improving its human resources support function with simple,
efficient processes and easy accessibility to analytics and
information.

Managing personnel capacity
In a high volume, growing logistics business, effective staffing
and planning is a key success factor. The tight labour market
and organisational changes within the company contribute to a
complex and intense staffing and planning exercise, which
needs to be managed under acute work pressure. Work and
personnel planning, targeted recruitment, employee
onboarding, retention and continuous improvement based on
employee feedback are key to ensure we can deliver what we
promise our customers.

Finding the right people in a tight labour market
During 2018, our number of FTEs slightly decreased by 1.8%.
Within Parcels we managed to grow our FTE number by 18%,
while FTEs in Mail fell by 8%.
Keeping up with the 21.5% growth in parcel volumes was a
huge challenge, due primarily to the lowest employment rate in
10 years. Despite this, we hired around 100 truck drivers and
300 parcel deliverers in the fourth quarter of 2018 as a result of
intensified, targeted recruitment campaigns.

PostNL Driving transition | 8 Social value

34

Manage employee turnover
We faced challenging company-wide turnover rates, especially
among new employees. This was due to a variety of reasons,
including improvements needed in the onboarding practice and
the competitive labour market.
To better retain the people we hire, especially in the first few
months of employment, we began implementing initiatives
that help get employees off to a good start at the company. For
example, we are paying more attention to welcoming people
on their first day, facilitating onboarding, training mentors at
our sorting and delivery centres, as well as focusing on building
up the workload slowly in the first few weeks. We believe that
greater personal attention will lead to higher employee
engagement and retention.

Making connections
The majority of our people have task-oriented jobs, with our
drivers and deliverers required to carry out their duties
primarily on their own. At the same time, our deliverers are the
face of PostNL in every street, every day, and they are the ones
who experience the effects of changes to our processes and
systems. Listening to our people and paying them the right
level of attention is vital if we are to learn as an organisation,
and help them feel engaged and appreciated.

Employee engagement
As mentioned in our key results section, employee engagement
decreased while employee loyalty increased slightly compared
to 2017. Positive feedback was related to customer focus, clear
expectations and innovation. We continue to be impacted by
the tight labour market, which creates a shortage of available
labour. Going forward, areas for improvement mainly relate to
clear choices, accepting mistakes and collaboration between
departments.
Due to the rapid change of our organisation, we are also
evaluating the way we measure the engagement of our
employees. For 2019, we have decided to change the way we
ask our people for feedback. We are also changing our external
service provider helping us to measure and improve our
employee engagement. We will update our measurement
method and also increase the frequency of our survey in order
to enable better follow up on the results.
A crucial pre-condition for providing feedback is trust. People
need to feel safe when voicing their opinion and trust that the
feedback they give will not impact them negatively. In 2018, we
introduced dialogue sessions with teams at all levels within our
business to discuss trust and the behaviour that builds trust.
These sessions were very positively received, and have led to a
number of action points.
Collaboration barometer delivery partners
Since 2015, PostNL has annually evaluated collaboration
between delivery partners and our parcel deliverers to identify
improvement areas. In 2018, 43% of our delivery partners and
almost 36% of their deliverers took part in the survey.
The results showed that 51% of the delivery partners and 63%
of the parcel deliverers are (highly) satisfied with the
collaboration with PostNL. The main areas for improvement
relate to communication and discussions (primarily on routes
and compensation), workload and process improvements.

Workload
We learned from round table discussions with our employees
that workload relates to five main themes: managing personnel
capacity, effectiveness and user-friendliness of systems,
communication, collaboration between departments and
implementing changes. Increased workload is an important
topic for our employees and PostNL values the openness of our
employees in the discussions. During 2018, PostNL

PostNL Driving transition | 8 Social value

35

commenced improvement initiatives on all five themes, both in
our Parcels and Mail businesses.
An example of improvements we implemented in 2018 is
ordering 500 new air-conditioned vans, which makes driving in
hot weather more convenient. We also started paying closer
attention to when employees take a break, ensuring that they
take rest periods during their work day. Furthermore, we
introduced communication screens and a complaints hotline in
all our sorting and delivery centres.
Within Mail we actively looked for opportunities to increase
contractual hours on a voluntary basis for employees with
small, part-time contracts. Deliverers can now select an
additional route through our app if they wish to increase the
number of hours they work.

Building a diverse and inclusive workforce
PostNL strives to build a workforce which represents society.
With around 120 nationalities represented in our workforce,
PostNL is a multicultural company. Diversity and inclusion is
important for PostNL, as well as our customers and other stakeholders. It creates more perspectives in our discussions, improves the decisions we make and generates ideas for new services
we introduce. Ultimately, it makes our business stronger.
In 2018, we published our diversity and inclusion policy built on
six elements. We focus on creating a work environment where
everyone feels safe and is provided with development opportunities to maximize their potential. PostNL stimulates diversity in
age, gender, ethnic background, sexual preference and distance to the labour market because we recognise that diversity
in mindset and abilities is crucial to succeed as a company.
Every three years PostNL holds a diversity survey, and we
define follow up actions accordingly. In addition, PostNL
finances scientific research into diversity and inclusion at the
VU Amsterdam, and uses the factual results to define specific
improvement areas. We use these to provide new insights to
our employees on cultural resilience.
Each year we train around 1,000 people across the company on
how to interact and behave in a multicultural environment. This
enables our people to make PostNL a pleasant place to work.
When we identify intercultural issues, internal specialists work
on a case-by-case basis to address them. PostNL works
continuously on specific actions across all six elements of its
diversity and inclusion policy to optimise the capabilities of our
workforce to operate in a multicultural and diverse society. We
also look at multicultural diversity through our mobility
programs and management development programs, with the
aim of attracting more multicultural talent and better aligning
the recruitment for our traineeships.

an organisation takes time. This is why we believe in focusing
on diversity and inclusion, and understand that developing
talent at lower levels of the organisation helps shape a more
diverse management structure for the future. We continued to
identify talent with multicultural backgrounds to help these
employees move into leadership positions within the company.
Through our partnership with the Agora network, we also
promote internal cultural diversity within PostNL. In addition,
we help women in the (sub)top of our organisation with a
mentoring program called Women Inclusion Network (WIN),
providing them with the opportunity to expand their
professional network.
PostNL is recognised in 2018 by the Social Economic Council
(SER) as one of the best practice companies on cultural
diversity. We are proud of this independent external
recognition which motivates us to proceed with our strategy.

Labour conditions
Collective labour agreements
PostNL agrees on labour conditions with trade unions in three
different collective labour agreements (CLA): Mail deliverers,
Saturday deliverers and other PostNL employees (PostNL). In
addition to the CLAs, PostNL has also agreed on a Social Plan
with all trade unions. This came into force in 2016 and expires
at the end of 2020. In 2018 PostNL agreed with the trade
unions on a new CLA for mail deliverers, applicable till 30
September 2019. Since November 2018, we have also been
negotiating the new PostNL CLA, and in early 2019 we signed a
principle agreement with three of the four trade unions.
Unfortunately, the fourth trade union disagrees with the
proposed improvement for our employees. In February, all
trade union members have the opportunity to vote about this
agreement.
PostNL values its relationships with trade unions and aims to
agree on new CLAs during the course of 2019 for all employees.
Relations with delivery partners and contracting parties
The main discussion topics with delivery partners in 2018 was
on parcel delivery rates and correct payment of their
employees. Our contracting model is being challenged by one
trade union. PostNL defines the principles for its tariffs
annually. These principles form the starting point for
contract discussions with delivery partners. For the Labour
Market Fraud (Bogus Schemes) Act (Wet Aanpak
Schijnconstructies), we are ultimately responsible for the fair
payment of delivery partners’ employees. These partners must
demonstrate to us that they make fair payment to their
employees, and our policy is to exclude delivery partners who
breach this regulation.

Developing our people
At the end of 2018, 48.5% of our workforce was female. PostNL
offers equal opportunities for all employees. However, with
only 21% of management positions held by women, we believe
there is still progress to be made. Developing leadership within

At PostNL we believe that ownership and curiosity is the engine
for learning and performing. Our People Development function
advises the business on individual and collective development
opportunities. We develop initiatives in co-creation with the

PostNL Driving transition | 8 Social value

36

businesses to stimulate and support learning and performance
improvement in line with the critical transformation needs
within the company. In 2018, the main elements were agile
working, customer experience and digital transformation.
In 2018, PostNL changed its approach to the development of
learning from a centrally-developed curriculum to a model
where the business has more control, based on their individual
needs. PostNL offers learning and development opportunities
for employees at all levels of the organisation, and for all skill
sets. For example, we offer language training, logistics college
education programs and leadership programs.
To help secure people’s employability, over the last few years
we have created a learning environment. We currently offer our
people a variety of online development opportunities, which
are designed in such a way that employees are able to utilise
them anytime and anyplace. This will align with the broader
change across society where people increasingly use online
platforms and apps that give them greater control over their
lives. This dedicated online environment, ‘Mijn Leerplein’, offers
content from third-party knowledge providers, meaning we
have a broader range of training courses on offer.

Managing personal capabilities and potential
PostNL values talent management as a success factor for the
continuity of our business. Our annual talent review process is
the basis of our leadership and talent management approach. It
addresses the performance and potential of our employees on
an individual level. Focusing on talent management enables us
to retain talent and identify areas to attract (more) talent. After
identifying our talent, we develop them and challenge them in
new jobs and roles, while planning ahead for the needs of key
positions. An example of pipeline development is our
talent-pool for logictics talent. PostNL also runs traineeships to
attract potential new leadership talent. During 2018, PostNL
employed 91 trainees of which 38 took on a new job within
PostNL and 53 will continue the program in 2019.

Performance management
PostNL would like its people to feel engaged and empowered to
grow. We use performance management to help monitor the
development of our employees. Currently, this is based on an
annual cycle, including the preparation of a personal
development plan, mid-term review and an annual
performance appraisal.
The introduction of more agile ways of working leads to a
change in working methods. PostNL plans to change its
performance management approach as from 2019, with the
aim of implementing a more collaborative and transparent
process of continuous dialogue and feedback. For example, in
2018 we introduced a Feedback on Behaviour initiative among
60 senior managers. And in January 2019, we began a pilot with
around 200 employees from different business units, and we
will use the results to optimise our approach during 2019. The
objective of the new Performance Management approach is to

PostNL Driving transition | 8 Social value

engage our people more in this process, and to improve
performance by paying more attention to their potential.

Remain healthy
Healthy employees are central to a well-functioning company,
as this increases employee satisfaction and productivity.
Providing a safe work environment is an important
pre-condition. The absenteeism rate and lost-time accidents
(LTA) rate are relevant metrics we use externally to measure
the health and safety of our people. At the beginning of 2018,
absenteeism went up. This upward trend began towards the
end of the third quarter of 2017. We identified a number of root
causes for the increase, and how we can tackle them. This
includes giving more attention to our employees, and
improving working conditions in our parcel sorting and delivery
centres. Another improvement area is focusing on alternative
tasks ill employees are able to carry out during their recovery.
Finally, we need to help those employees that call in sick more
frequently than expected, by constructively discussing the risk
of long-term illness and the support we can offer them to
remain healthy.
During 2018 we implemented a number of initiatives to reverse
this absenteeism trend. One example is providing training to
our operational managers in the prevention of absenteeism. In
addition, we built awareness among our managers about the
role they play in preventing absenteeism, and we provided
tools to enable them to discuss potential long-term illness in an
adequate manner. We also hired dedicated case managers to
support our businesses in helping ill employees and to coordinate our processes around registration and follow up on
absences.
While our overall 2018 absenteeism results are still higher than
2017 (5.9% compared to 5.2%), we see signs that our actions
are having a positive impact. The monthly figures as from the
second half of 2018 improved with absenteeism overall lower in
the fourth quarter compared to 2017, and we aim to continue
our efforts in 2019 to decrease absenteeism. Our Lost time
accidents rate decreased from 3.1% to 2.3%. Our efforts to
reduce the number of accidents caused by scooters has had its
effect. While this indicator provides some insights, we are
evaluating our safety indicators for 2019 onwards. Despite our
focus on safety, we regret the fact that PostNL was involved in
two occupational fatal accidents. These cases relate to people
working for delivery partners who were involved in traffic
accidents.

Realising change

Opening of sorting and delivery centres within Parcels
segment
When we open a new parcel depot, it has an impact on the
people working for PostNL. The workforce in the new sorting
and delivery centres is made up of new hires and experienced
people. We also look for ways to optimise our logistics
processes, which means current routes can be partly or wholly

37

moved to a new depot. People are given the choice to stay or to
move to the new depot. We consider the impact on our people
carefully when opening new sorting and delivery centres and
apply a phased build-up to manage the impact on our people
and operations.

of our people, in particular those colleagues in Mail whose work
is impacted by volume decline. The approach was effective,
with only a small number of employees unable to find a new
opportunity internally. For example, we managed to relocate
employees from the preparation locations we closed in 2018.
With the opening of the IMEC, we also successfully relocated
employees from the old international mail and parcels sorting
centres on a voluntary basis. A key element in our approach is
to focus on careful communication about the reasoning behind
changes in our organisation. As a result of the strong growth
across parts of our business, new interesting positions are
opening up. This is one of the reasons we activily stimulated
voluntary internal mobility through internal recruitment
campaigns.

Human Rights
At PostNL, respect for human rights is an important
pre-condition to be a sustainable company and good employer.
PostNL is committed to protect and advance Human Rights and
works vigorously to protect people against infringements of
Human Rights in its operations. We respect ILO’s Declaration on
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and particularly
endorse the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human
Rights. In 2018, we published a group policy on human rights in
which we describe the measures safeguarding relevant human
rights aspects. The table below shows which human rights
articles as defined in the Universal Declaraton of Human Rights
of the United Nations are covered by our policy. Based on our
risk assessment (see chapter 14), human rights have not been
identified as significant risk and we did not identify a
meaningful performance indicator. We evaluate our human
rights policies qualitatively. We plan to carry our an assessment
in 2019 to identify any potential improvement areas to our
current policies and mechanisms.
Human rights in our policy

Giving parcel deliverers more control of planning
Until 2018, route planning was developed based on delivery
time and order. However, during the evaluation of operational
performance, we noted our deliverers were experiencing difficulties in meeting the delivery time-window given to recipients.
To tackle this, towards the end of 2018 we introduced changes
to our route planning. While we still suggest a route, each
deliverer can now change the delivery order themselves. This
gives them more freedom and improves delivery quality.

Elements of PostNL
Group Human Rights
Policy

Subject covered

reference to UDHR

Collective labour
agreements

Stimulate trade union and work
council participation; work
conditions; equal opportunities;
remuneration; working hours and
rest;

Art. 20; Art. 23.1; Art.
23.2; Art. 23.3; Art. 24

Business principles

Slavery; Diversity

Art. 4; Art. 18

PostNL Group Statement
on Slavery and Human
Trafficking

Slavery

Art. 4

PostNL Procurement
policy

Freedom of association, work
conditions; equal opportunities;
remuneration; working hours and
rest;

Art. 20; Art. 23.1; Art.
23.2; Art. 23.3; Art. 24

Diversity & Inclusion Policy

Freedom of thought, conscience
and religion; equal opportunities

Art. 18; Art. 23.2

PostNL pride network

Stimulate LGBT acceptance

Art. 18

Woman Inclusion Network

Support women in equal
opportunities

article 18

OHSAS 18001 certification

Work conditions

Art. 23.1

Complaints and support
processes

Freedom of opinion and expression

Art. 19

Focus on internal mobility
During the year we paid more attention to the internal mobility

PostNL Driving transition | 8 Social value

38

PostNL Driving transition | 8 Social value

39

9 Environmental value
As a logistics service provider, we are aware of the impact we have on the
environment. Because we deliver to every street in the Netherlands and Belgium, our
objective is to develop innovative solutions to help us reduce our environmental
impact. We want to be the most sustainable player in our sector in the markets and
countries in which we operate, with emission-free last-mile delivery across the
Benelux by 2030. To help achieve this, we are working with our employees, our
customers, our partners and our suppliers to make the supply chain more sustainable.
Benefitting us, benefitting them and benefitting the environment.

Key results and highlights
In October 2018 we announced long-term goals to deliver
emission-free in 25 Dutch city centres by 2025, and deliver
emission-free in the last-mile throughout the Benelux by 2030.
This includes greenhouse gas emissions, NOx and PM10.
Innovation and efficiency, green kilometres and sustainable
buildings are the areas we will focus on to achieve these goals.
We will start reporting about the progress on these long term
goals in our Annual Report 2019.
During the year, we improved our CO2 efficiency by 4%
compared to 2017. Since 2007, PostNL has reduced its relative
emissions for scope 1 and 2 combined by 61.4%.
The reduction of mail sorting and preparation locations has
helped us become more efficient and further cut our energy
use. Using heat pumps instead of gas in our Parcels sorting
centres is an example of how we have further reduced our
emissions. We also concentrated on innovation and efficiency,
for example by developing a smart packaging solution with
Futurumshop. This cuts waste and also contributes to lower CO2
emissions.
Continuous investment in cleaner vehicles has helped reduce
emissions from our fleet, and in 2018 we continued replacing
diesel vans with cleaner alternatives, for example biogas vans
or, where feasible, e-cargo bikes. We also introduced electric
vans and installed power chargers at our new parcel centre in
Amsterdam. And the first trucks using liquefied natural gas
(LNG) were introduced. We will continue to increase the
number of electric and low-emission trucks and vans we use to

PostNL Driving transition | 9 Environmental value

collect and deliver mail and parcels.
We built new parcel sorting and delivery centres that conform
to the highest energy-efficiency standards, for example by
installing solar panels. Our focus on sustainable buildings
resulted in our three new sorting and delivery centres in the
Netherlands being built in accordance with the BREEAM
Outstanding classification. And our environmental
management system is ISO 14001 certified and helps us remain
focused on continuously evaluating and further reducing our
environmental impact.
In 2018 PostNL started to set new science-based targets (SBT)
on emission reduction towards 2030. Our aim is to reduce our
total absolute direct (scope 1) and energy indirect (scope 2)
emissions by 60% compared to 2017. Our ambition on absolute
reduction of all our emissions, including these of subcontractors
(scope 3), is 18%. These targets are based on volume growth in
our Parcels business. In addition to absolute targets, we strive
to reduce our relative combined scope 1 and 2 emissions in CO2
per kilometre by 80%.
We expect these targets to be validated by the SBT initiative on
short notice. We expect to make some scope changes in our
emissions reporting and we will report on SBT progress for the
first time in the 2019 annual report.
This chapter provides more detailed information about how we
create environmental value.

40

Main developments
PostNL designed and implemented an environmental
management system in almost all its locations, which is
certified under ISO 14001. This helps us to approach
environmental management systematically and focus on
continuous improvement. In 2018 we were recognised by the
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for the progress we have
made. Based on an independent assessment, PostNL was rated
A- in 2018 (2017: B) and we are now close to the highest rating
possible.

The Big challenge: Growth and green
Environmentally, the world faces a huge challenge. In line with
the Paris Climate Agreement, the world’s temperatures should
stay within a maximum of a two degree increase by 2050. The
Netherlands has committed to this agreement, setting a goal to
reduce CO2 by 49% by 2030 and be almost CO2 neutral by 2050.
We realise that PostNL, as a postal and logistics company, has
an important impact on CO2 emission. That is why we have
committed to reducing our CO2 emissions by 55% by 2020
compared to 2007 and by 78% by 2030. In order to push
further reduction measures, we aim to apply internal carbon
prices in our (strategic) investment decisions in the near future.

Innovation and efficiency
Our goal is to increase the efficiency of deliveries along our
entire supply chain, helping to cut unnecessary mileage. We
achieve this primarily through better cooperation in the chain.
One example is by bundling shipments together so that a
deliverer can pick up and deliver everything along one route.

Smart packaging
In many cases, parcels sent by our customers contain a lot of
air. In addition, most packages are disposable. PostNL
identified opportunities to manage packages more efficiently.
We are in discussions with large customers about how they can
remove air from their parcels by using smaller packages. This
saves space in delivery vans, and at the same time CO2
emissions during delivery and waste treatment. We will
continue this initiative in 2019 and aim to achieve tangible
results.
As mentioned in the Customer value chapter, the pilot with
Futurum Shop also contributes to lower CO2 emissions and is a
good example of a smart holistic approach to add value in
different domains.

KPN enables our customers to source materials from used
products which contributes to the circular economy.

Funding innovation
The share of energy consumed by PostNL from renewable
sources is growing and we plan to increase this share in the
near future. However, we also take responsibility for our
remaining CO2 emissions from fossil fuel sources. Together with
our customers, we run a program called "Green post". The
programme lets customers compensate the CO2 emissions
generated by the post they send. The money is then donated
to sustainable projects aimed at supporting innovation in
renewable energy generation. PostNL has doubled the €25,000
that customers invested in the program to €50,000. All these
projects have the Gold Standard-quality standard.
For the electricity PostNL purchases, we offset our CO2
emissions through purchasing and retiring guarantees of origin.
Our investment supports the development in renewable energy
generation, such as wind energy.

Green kilometres
We aim to make each kilometre we travel as efficient and
sustainable as possible. As e-commerce continues to drive the
growth of Parcels higher each year, our focus is on delivering to
consumers sustainably. By 2025, our aim is to have
emission-free parcel delivery in 25 city centres across the
Netherlands, and by 2030 to have emission-free last-mile
delivery across the Benelux. However, we are not starting from
scratch. Mail deliverers have been delivering by foot or bike for
years, for example. And we also use biogas and electric
vehicles, and are currently discussing with airlines how to make
the flights that transport our parcels more sustainable.

City Logistics
PostNL identified that the combination of the expected
long-term growth in the e-commerce market and our current
business model are not sustainable in densely populated cities,
given the impact it would have on climate change, air quality
and traffic congestion. As a consequence, we decided to take a
pro-active approach towards the debate on future city logistics.
In 2018, PostNL developed a view on possible alternative
business models that facilitate growth, while minimising the
negative impact on climate, air quality and congestion. At the
end of this chapter we detail our view including some examples.

Contribute to a more circular economy
With thousands of vans returning empty from their delivery
route, PostNL has the capacity to fill these with return
packages. While this part of the value chain is still in its infancy,
we began to see some traction in 2018 and we want to further
develop this area in the near future. The first concrete example
is the KPN Circulair Manifest we signed in 2018. We are
developing a service to take back old KPN equipment when we
deliver new products on behalf of KPN. Returning old devices to

PostNL Driving transition | 9 Environmental value

41

parked on pavements, thereby reducing traffic congestion. In
2018 the Dutch government introduced a ban on their use,
following a fatal accident, which was unconnected to PostNL.
Although this means we are currently unable to use our fleet of
79 e-cargo Stints, the ban has had no impact on our ability to
deliver parcels and mail, and where possible we now deliver
using e-bikes and e-cargo bikes. We began with 100%
emission-free delivery on the Wadden Islands, and we replaced
200 petrol scooters with sustainable scooters.

Lean & Green Logistics
PostNL aims to be a frontrunner in its approach towards
environmental management. In addition to our ISO 14001
certification, we have also been evaluated by Lean & Green
Logistics on the progress we are making to become more
sustainable in our Parcels business. In 2018, PostNL received its
second Lean & Green Star as a recognition on its progress on
emission reductions. Alongside this evaluation, we also
engaged with Lean & Green Logistics on a tool called Lean &
Green analytics. PostNL is one of the first pilot companies that
voluntarily had their activity data analysed by this tool to
obtain valuable insights in further areas for improvement.

Sustainable buildings
As we look to our 2030 environmental goals, our aim is that all
our future buildings and sorting centres are CO2 neutral, or even
CO2 positive. We are also working as sustainable and efficient as
possible at our locations. For example, we are installing LED
lighting to lower our energy consumption, while 40% of the
electricity used at our parcel processing and distribution
centres is generated sustainably by solar panels.

Opening new parcel processing and distribution
centres

Sustainable delivery fleet
We are making our delivery fleet more sustainable on a daily
basis. In 2018, we made use of 263 e-bikes, 24 electrical
scooters, 65 electrical cargo bikes, 828 buses driving on bio-gas,
and 12 small electric vehicles. Additionally, all our vehicles meet
the Euro 5 or Euro 6 standards, and 44% of our delivery buses
drive on green gas (and our aim is to have this percentage up to
60% by 2020). The expansion of our electric vehicle fleet will
help us making progress towards our long term goal to deliver
emission free in the last-mile.

All three of our new parcel processing and distribution centres
have been built in accordance with the BREEAM Outstanding
classification for design. This shows our commitment towards
maximising our energy efficiency in our buildings. The centres
were built using a range of sustainable materials, have been
fitted with LED lighting and solar panels, and are gas-free, which
contributes to a healthier working environment. Additionally,
the centre we opened in Amsterdam includes a loading dock for
15 e-vehicles, reflecting our ongoing shift towards
emission-free deliveries over the last-mile.

Centralising mail sorting capacity
In our Mail operations we managed to close six preparation
locations across the country and one sorting centre. These
closures have helped us further reduce our CO2 emissions.

In 2017 we started using e-cargo Stints to deliver parcels and
mail across a number of city centres in the Netherlands. This
proved to be a promising vehicle for PostNL, as it could be

PostNL Driving transition | 9 Environmental value

42

Sustainable value chain
PostNL works together with various organisations to help the
e-commerce sectors reduce its environmental impact. We
participate in the branch organisation Thuiswinkel.org together
with other big players in the e-commerce sector. We sponsor
the organsation for the development of a tool to calculate the
CO2 impact of each parcel which is used to monitor the climate
change impact of e-commerce and create consumer awareness
by showing the CO2 footprint in their webstore checkout page.
PostNL is one of the founding members of Shopping Tomorrow,
a network platform where PostNL provides resources to
participate in different expert groups to discuss the future
consumer behaviour and impact on the e-commerce sector.
Through our collaboration with Weee Netherlands we collect
electrical appliances from consumers for the Weeelectric
program. Weee Netherlands picks up the appliances from our
sorting centre and sustainably dismantles these. This
contributes to a more circular economy. We also collaborate
with customers through sharing expertise on sustainable
delivery, for example with Bol.com.

PostNL Driving transition | 9 Environmental value

43

PostNL Driving transition | 9 Environmental value

44

10 Financial value
PostNL provides short and long-term financial value for shareholders, enabling them
to obtain shareholder return. This is why PostNL focuses on realising a solid financial
performance and a healthy financial position. This chapter outlines key developments
that impacted our financial performance over 2018 and concludes with an outlook for
2019.

Decision to divest Nexive and Postcon
In line with PostNL's strategy to accelerate our transformation to be the logistics and postal solutions provider in the Benelux,
PostNL has decided to divest its Italian and German business lines Nexive and Postcon. Both business lines are reported as held for
sale and the full-year 2018 results and cash flows are reported as discontinued operations. The comparative figures for 2017 of both
the income and cash flow statement have been represented for the change to discontinued operations.

Change in segment reporting
The business lines Nexive, Postcon and Spring were previously reported in the segment International. The decision to divest Nexive
and Postcon, and subsequent classification of these business lines as discontinued operations, triggered a change in segment
reporting. As of 2018, PostNL reports two operating segments Parcels (including Spring) and Mail in the Netherlands, and one other
segment PostNL Other. All financials hereafter are based on continuing operations, except where noted.

Key results

Revenue
In 2018, Group revenue increased by 1.7% or €47 million to
€2,772 million (2017: €2,725 million). Adjusted for FX effects,
the increase was 1.9%. The revenue contribution from
e-commerce related activities increased to 48% (2017: 44%),
highlighting that the challenges and opportunities we face are
accelerating our transformation.

In Parcels (excluding Spring) volumes grew significantly, by
21.5% (2017: 17.2%). Our domestic 2B and 2C volumes showed
strong growth, following the trend of increasing e-commerce.
This resulted in record high volumes during our peak season in
the fourth quarter. In total, we delivered 252 million parcels in
2018 (2017: 207 million).
Parcels revenue (excluding Spring) increased by 19.8% or €220
million to €1,330 million (2017: €1,110 million). The main driver
for this growth was volume increase, partly offset by a negative
price/mix effect. We also saw strong growth from logistic
solutions. Overall demand for additional services, such as same
day delivery, and in new markets, such as food and health,
further increased.
In Spring, revenue declined by 6.8% or €19 million to €259
million (2017: €278 million). Adjusted for FX effects, the decline
was 4.7%. The competitive environment remains fierce,
especially in Asia.
Total revenue in Parcels, including Spring, increased by 12.5%
or €173 million to €1,555 million (2017: €1,382 million).

PostNL Driving transition | 10 Financial value

45

In Mail in the Netherlands, volume decline in 2018 was 10.7%
(2017: 9.9% decline). The decline is driven by ongoing high
substitution, particularly in single mail, and loss to competition,
with the ratios of substitution and loss not materially differed
from 2017. Supported by regulation, we have seen postal
operators collecting more mail items. Part of these volumes are
returned to PostNL via regulated network access, resulting in
pressure on our average prices. At the same time, consolidators
delivered more mail through their own networks, impacting our
bulk mail volumes.

At Spring, the fierce competitive environment put pressure on
revenue and margin, resulting in a lower performance than
2017.
In 2018, the underlying operating income of Parcels, including
Spring, was €121 million (2017: €142 million) with a resulting
margin of 7.8% (2017: 10.3%). Underlying cash operating
income in 2018 was €117 million (2017: €140 million) with a
resulting margin of 7.5% (2017: 10.1%). The decrease in margin
was almost entirely caused by the performance of Spring.

In 2018, revenue decreased by 5.9% or €105 million to €1,678
million (2017: €1,783 million), with volume decline of 10.7%
partly compensated by a positive price/mix effect. In
addition to income from our core addressed mail volumes,
revenue also includes income from related business activities.
These other activities include the delivery of unaddressed mail
and customer contact, print and direct marketing services.

Underlying (cash) operating income
In 2018, the Group’s underlying operating income was €209
million (2017: €297 million) with a resulting margin of 7.5%
(2017: 10.9%). Underlying operating income excludes
exceptional items, which were €24 million in 2018 (2017: €13
million). The Group’s underlying cash operating income, in
which underlying operating income is adjusted for non-cash
costs of pensions and provisions, was €188 million (2017: €241
million) with a resulting margin of 6.8% (2017: 8.8%).
Further information on the bridge from operating to
underlying (cash) operating income is included in note 2.5 to
the consolidated financial statements.
The performance of Parcels (excluding Spring) in 2018
benefited from strong volume growth, partly offset by a
negative price/mix effect and higher operational costs,
explained by the tight labour and transport market and
capacity costs to absorb the swings in daily volume. IT costs
related to further development of our digital services increased.
Additionally, performance in our logistic solutions activities
improved.

PostNL Driving transition | 10 Financial value

46

Mail in the Netherlands performance in 2018 was below last
year. Lower volumes were only partly compensated by a
positive price/mix effect, negatively impacting revenue. This
impact could not be fully countered by lower costs. Cost savings
and lower cash out related to pensions and provisions were
largely offset by autonomous cost increases and lower results
from export and other effects.
Our cost saving plans include a number of initiatives, such as
adjusting our sorting and delivery process, the optimisation of
our retail network and the streamlining of staff. In 2018, we
achieved total cost savings of €48 million, as expected slightly
below our initial guidance of between €50 million and €70
million. With achieved savings of €30 million in the second half
of the year, we saw the run-rate in savings increase during the
year.

As explained in chapter 4: Our operating context, in September
2018 the CBb annulled the ACM’s decision on SMP. Because of
the CBb verdict, we have adjusted the expected financial
impact related to the ACM’s measures to between €40 million
to €45 million on an annualised basis (from between €50
million to €70 million), fully visible in 2020. In Q4 2018, both
revenue and result were supported by a related retroactive
invoice to postal operators of €7.5 million.
In December 2018, the ACM published a new draft decision on
SMP. Based on the new draft SMP decision, we adjust the
expected impact from ACM measures to between €50 million
and €70 million on an annualised basis, fully visible in 2021.
In 2018, the underlying operating income of Mail in the
Netherlands was €133 million (2017: €177 million) with a
resulting margin of 7.9% (2017: 9.9%). Underlying cash
operating income in 2018 was €93 million (2017: €125 million)
with a resulting margin of 5.5% (2017: 7.0%).

Other financial indicators

Profit from continuing operations
In 2018, profit from continuing operations decreased by €52
million to €127 million (2017: €179 million). Lower operating
income of €99 million was only partly offset by €18 million
lower net financial expenses, a €10 million better result from
investments in joint ventures/associates and €19 million lower
income taxes.
The decrease in net financial expenses relate to lower interest
on long-term borrowings of €18 million resulting from the
redemption of bonds in November 2017 and in August 2018.
The €10 million stronger result from investments in joint
ventures/associate is largely related to a one-off impairment
charge of €9 million in 2017 related to Postkantoren/Bruna.

PostNL Driving transition | 10 Financial value

Income taxes amounted to €34 million in 2018 (2017: €53
million). The effective tax rate was 21.1% in 2018 (2017:
22.8%), which is lower than the statutory income tax rate of
25% in the Netherlands, mainly influenced by the impact of tax
rate changes in the Netherlands on our deferred tax positions.
Result from discontinued operations
The decrease in the result from discontinued operations of €63
million is mainly explained by a fair value impairment of €59
million, reflecting the outcome of our assessment of fair value
compared to the book value of the assets and liabilities held for
sale. The performance of discontinued operations is further
explained in note 3.8 to the consolidated financial statements.

47

PostNL
Summary consolidated income statement

PostNL
Summary consolidated statement of cash flows

2017-2018, in € millions

2017-2018, in € millions

Year ended at 31 December
Total operating revenue
Other income
Total operating expenses

2018

Year ended at 31 December

2,725

2,772

Cash generated from operations

216

94

24

21

Interest paid

(39)

(26)

(2,465)

(2,608)

Income taxes paid

(55)

(39)

Net cash (used in)/from operating activities

122

29

Net cash used for capital investments and
disposals

(69)

(49)

Net cash used for acquisitions

(33)

0

Operating income

284

185

Net financial income/(expense)

(42)

(24)

Results from investments in jv's/associates

(10)

0

Income taxes

(53)

(34)

Profit/(loss) from continuing
operations

179

127

Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations

(31)

(94)

Profit for the year

148

33

33.0

7.1

Earnings from continuing operations per share
(in € cents) 1

39.9

27.5

Earnings from discontinued operations per
share (in € cents) 1

(6.9)

(20.4)

Earnings per share (in € cents)

1

1. Earnings per ordinary share are in 2018 based on an average of 462,015,866
outstanding ordinary shares (2017: 448,645,255).

Net cash from operating and investing
activities
In 2018, net cash from operating and investing activities was
€(19) million (2017: €11 million). The decrease of €30 million is
the total of €93 million lower net cash from operating activities
offset by €63 million lower net cash used in investing activities.
The decrease in net cash from operating activities of €93
million is explained by €122 million lower cash generated from
operations, partly offset by €13 million lower interest paid and
€16 million lower income taxes paid. Cash generated from
operations was substantially impacted by a negative change in
net working capital of €(83) million, explained by higher
settlements with foreign postal operators, lower employeerelated accrual and phasing effects.
The decrease in net cash used in investing activities of €63
million is mainly explained by €20 million lower net cash used
for capital investments and disposals and no net cash used for
acquisitions (2017: €(33) million).
Net cash used in financing activities
In 2018, net cash used in financing activities of €(285) million
was mainly used for the redemption of a eurobond of €223
million in August 2018 and (interim) dividend payments of €63
million.

PostNL Driving transition | 10 Financial value

2017
represented

2017
represented

2018

(9)

1

(111)

(48)

Net cash from operating and investing
activities

11

(19)

Net cash from debt financing activities

67

(222)

Net cash for dividend and other equity
changes

Net cash from other investing activities
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities

(40)

(63)

Net cash (used in)/from financing activities

27

(285)

Total change in cash from continuing
operations

38

(304)

Net debt
At the end of 2018, net debt amounted to €149 million
(2017: net cash of €27 million). The decrease of €176 million
includes a movement related to discontinued operations of €72
million. The remaining decrease of €104 million mainly resulted
from the negative cash flow related to our operating and
investing activities of €19 million, (interim) dividend payments
of €63 million and additional finance lease liabilities of €23
million.
PostNL
Debt cash outflows (including interest)
2018, in € millions
< 1 yr

1 - 3 yr

> 5 yr

Eurobonds

4

8

412

Financial leases

3

6

17

Total

7

14

429

Our short and long-term debt (excluding interest) amounted to
€424 million at 31 December 2018. Including interest, the total
debt cash outflow amounted to €450 million. Phasing thereof is
shown in the following table.
PostNL has a €400 million committed revolving credit facility,
which was fully undrawn at the end of 2018. PostNL has no
material short-term credit facilities or other debt refinancing.
There are no financial covenants. Our latest S&P credit rating
was BBB+ with negative outlook.

48

Consolidated equity

Dividend proposal 2018

Consolidated equity attributable to equity holders amounted to
€46 million at 31 December 2018 (2017: €34 million). The
increase of €12 million is mainly explained by the €33
million net profit in 2018, actuarial gains related to pensions of
€30 million and a fair value remeasurement of our stake in
Whistl of €11 million, both recorded in other comprehensive
income, partly offset by (interim) dividend payments of €63
million.

In accordance with our dividend policy, we target a dividend
pay-out ratio of around 75% of the underlying net cash income.
In 2018, PostNL's underlying net cash income amounted to
€138 million (2017: €154 million). The decrease of €16 million
is explained by a lower underlying cash operating income of
€53 million, offset by €18 million lower net financial expenses
and €19 million lower tax expenses.
PostNL
Underlying net cash income
2017-2018, in € millions
Year ended at 31 December

2017
represented

2018

Underlying cash operating income

241

188

Net financial expense (adjusted) 1

(34)

(16)

Tax expenses

(53)

(34)

Underlying net cash income

154

138

1. Excluding interest on pensions of €8 million (2017: €8 million).

Over 2018, PostNL will recommend to the Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders the payment of an election dividend
of €0.24 per ordinary share (2017: €0.23). This represents a
pay-out ratio of around 80%, as indicated during 2018
exceeding our targeted pay-out ratio to underline our
commitment to our shareholders to pay a progressive dividend.
€0.07 per share was paid as interim dividend in August 2018.
After approval by the AGM, the final dividend of €0.17 will be
paid, at the shareholder’s election, either in ordinary PostNL
shares or in cash (default). The dividend in shares will be paid
out of additional paid in capital as part of the distributable
reserves, free of withholding tax in the Netherlands.
We refer to chapter 17: PostNL on the capital markets, for a
description of our dividend policy and chapter 18: Financial
statements, for more information on the appropriation of profit.

Subsequent events
On 25 February 2019, we have made a joint announcement
with Sandd regarding our intention to create one strong
national postal network in the Netherlands. PostNL and Sandd
have filed a request for approval with the regulator, which is the
formal start of this process. The transaction appreciates Sandd
at an enterprise value of €130m and provides for the purchase
of all (100%) Sandd shares. The acquisition will be funded
through cash on hand and external funding. The acquisition is
conditional on approval of the combination of Sandd and
PostNL by the authorities, consultation with the relevant works
councils and trade unions, and agreement on the final
transaction documentation.

PostNL Driving transition | 10 Financial value

49

Outlook 2019
Please note that the following outlook for 2019 is based on the situation before the joint announcement of PostNL and Sandd on 25
February 2019 to form one strong national postal network for the Netherlands. The acquisition will be funded through cash on hand
and external funding.
The e-commerce market is expected to continue its strong growth and will remain the main driver of the performance in Parcels.
We will focus on growth potential of our business by striking the right balance between volume, profitability and cash flow. We
expect improving operational efficiency, partly offset by the impact from the tight labour and transport market. We will continue to
expand our network by opening new sorting depots. To solidify our position as the leading e-commerce logistics company in the
Benelux, we will also further develop our service propositions, for example in growth areas such as food and health.
In Mail in the Netherlands we expect our addressed mail volumes to decline by 8% to 10% in 2019 which will be partly offset by
price increase. An important project is the switch to an equal flow model, a step change in business model that enables us to adapt
the organisation to future volume decline. We expect cost savings of between €45 million and €65 million. Based on the new draft
decision on Significant Market Power we adjust the expected impact from ACM measures to between €50 million and €70 million on
an annualised basis, fully visible in 2021.
For 2019, the outlook for underlying cash operating income is between €170 million and €200 million.
Our aim to pay progressive dividend remains unchanged.
The table below shows our outlook for 2019 on revenue and underlying cash operating income (margin).
PostNL
Outlook
2018-2019, in € millions
Operating revenue
2018

outlook 2019

Underlying cash operating
income (margin)
2018

1,555

+ low teens

117

(7.5%)

7.5% to 9.5%

Mail in NL

1,678

- mid single digit

93

(5.5%)

3% to 5%

PostNL Other / eliminations

(461)

Parcels

Total

2,772

outlook 2019

(22)

+ low single digit

188

170 to 200

Other financial indicators for 2019:
●

●

●

●

●

Cost savings of between €45 million and €65 million (2018: €48 million)
Regular employer pension expenses of around €125 million of which around €120 million in operating expenses and around €5
million in financial expenses (2018: €134 million of which €126 million in operating expenses and €8 million in financial expenses)
Regular employer pension contributions of around €115 million (2018: €115 million)
Cash outflow from provisions of between €20 million and €30 million (2018: €36 million)
Cash capital expenditures of at most €100 million (2018: €95 million)

Other non-financial targets for 2019:
●

●

●

●

Highly satisfied customers at the level of 2018 (2018: 30%)
Delivery quality above minimum required level of 95% (2018: preliminary 95%)
Employee engagement above the level of 2018 (2018: 65%)
CO2 efficiency index below the level of 2018 (2018: 38.6) - this indicator will change to reflect our new 2030 ambitions

PostNL Driving transition | 10 Financial value

50

Governance

PostNL Driving transition | Governance

51

PostNL Driving transition | Governance

52

11 Statement of the Board of Management
Dutch Corporate Governance Code
PostNL applies the principles and best practices of the Dutch
Corporate Governance Code (the Code), as referred to in article
391, paragraph 5, book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code (DCC), except
for the best practice provisions below, where we also explain
why we do not comply with them. Future developments might
justify further deviations from the Code at the moment of
occurrence. Each substantial change in the corporate governance structure of the company and in the compliance of the
company with the Code shall be discussed with the General
Meeting of Shareholders. The full text of the Code can be found
on www.postnl.nl.
Provision 3.2.3 of the Code states that remuneration in the
event of dismissal of members of the Board of Management
may not exceed one year's salary (the fixed remuneration
component), and that severance payments will not be awarded
if the agreement is terminated early at the initiative of a
member of the Board of Management. The severance payment
of Ms Verhagen in case of a change of control equals the sum of
the last annual base salary and pension contribution plus the
average variable remuneration received over the last three
years, multiplied by two. Furthermore, in case of a change of
control, Ms Verhagen may, under certain circumstances,
receive a severance payment if the agreement is terminated at
her own initiative. Ms Verhagen was employed by PostNL
before the Code became first effective. PostNL is of the opinion
that the agreed severance payment in case of a change of
control is proportionate, considering that PostNL wishes to
respect the agreement made in the past. Also, the Supervisory
Board may decide that the performance shares vest in whole or
in part.

Responsibility statement under the
Code
The Code requires the Board of Management to provide a
description of PostNL’s main risks in relation to its risk appetite.
Such risks may include strategic, operational, compliance and
financial reporting risks. These risks and the relation to PostNL’s
risk appetite are included in chapter 14: Risk management. The
Board of Management confirms that it is responsible for
PostNL's risk management, internal control, integrity and
compliance systems and has reviewed the design and the
operational effectiveness of these systems for the year ended
31 December 2018. The outcome of these reviews and analysis
has been shared with the Audit Committee and the Supervisory
Board and has been discussed with PostNL's external auditor.
The same would apply in respect of material failings in PostNL's
risk management, internal control, integrity and compliance
systems and of material changes or improvement implemented
in such systems, each if applicable. In 2018, PostNL
implemented material organisational and IT changes and
improvements. No material failings in PostNL’s risk

PostNL Driving transition | 11 Statement of the Board of Management

management, internal control, integrity and compliance
systems were reported. Other than those described in chapter
14: Risk management, and provided for external conditions that
can reasonably be expected to have an impact on a company’s
results, the results of PostNL are generally not sensitive for
material changes in external conditions.
Based on the outcome of the PostNL-specific approach to risk
management, internal control, integrity and compliance as
outlined above, the Board of Management believes, to the best
of its knowledge, that PostNL's internal control over financial
reporting worked effectively over the year ended 31 December
2018, and provides reasonable assurance that the financial
reporting is free from material inaccuracies or misstatements.
Additionally, the Board of Management is of the view that
considering the annually updated strategic plan and forecasts,
in the current situation, it is justified that PostNL’s financial
reporting has been prepared on a going concern basis and that
it states those material risks and uncertainties that are relevant
for the expectation of PostNL’s continuity for the period of
twelve months after the preparation of the report. The above,
however, does not imply that PostNL can provide certainty as
to the realisation of strategic business and financial objectives.
Nor can PostNL's approach to internal control over financial
reporting be expected to prevent or detect all misstatements,
errors, fraud or violation of laws or regulations.
In view of the above and based on the outline of the main risks
and risk responses described in chapter 14: Risk management,
the Board of Management believes it complies with provisions
1.4.2 and 1.4.3 of the Code.

Responsibility statement under the
Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act
With reference to section 5.25c paragraph 2 under c of the
Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act, the Board of
Management confirms to the best of its knowledge that:
The annual financial statements for the year ended 31
December 2018 give a true and fair view of the assets,
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of PostNL and its
consolidated companies
The additional management information disclosed in the
Annual Report gives a true and fair view of PostNL and its
consolidated companies as at 31 December 2018, the state of
affairs during the financial year to which the report relates,
together with a description of the main risks facing PostNL.
●

●

The members of the Supervisory Board and the Board of
Management have signed the financial statements pursuant to
their statutory obligation under article 2:101(2) of the DCC.
The Hague, 25 February 2019
The Board of Management

53

12 Report of the Supervisory Board
Message from Jan Nooitgedagt,
chairman of the Supervisory Board of
PostNL N.V.
Dear stakeholders,
It is my pleasure to present the report of the Supervisory Board
for the financial year 2018, my first year as member and
Chairman of the Supervisory Board. The report aims to give you
an overview of the performance of our Supervisory Board.

Looking back on 2018
In 2018 PostNL took further steps in realising our strategy and
ambitions to be the postal and logistics solution provider in the
Benelux. In Parcels we continue to see impressive volume
growth translating into double-digit revenue increase and a
21.5% growth of our volumes excluding Spring. We also further
improved our service propositions by developing innovative
services. And in line with our strategy, PostNL decided to divest
Nexive and Postcon. Furthermore, progress was made with the
program to find new profit pools through diversification in the
growth domains. Examples of the above can be found
throughout this Annual Report. And the fact that 48% of
PostNL’s revenue was related to e-commerce by year-end,
exemplifies that the transformation is accelerating fast. This
comes with challenges and opportunities.
Overall we have seen a decline in customer satisfaction, overall
reputation scores and employee engagement. The continuously fast-growing e-commerce market requires us to speed up
and increase our investments in the capacity of Parcels’
infrastructure, both in the Netherlands and in Belgium. Volume
decline in Mail is developing in line with expectations, caused
by the same drivers as we have seen in the past: substitution in
particular, and increased competition supported by regulation.
We realised lower than anticipated cost savings due to delays in
the roll-out of the sorting code and other adjustments in the
operational process. For Spring, the competitive environment
remains fierce, especially in Asia, putting pressure on margin
and performance. Although e-commerce in Europe is still
growing, the decline in performance in Asia offsets the growth
of e-commerce in Europe.
Furthermore, we have to deal with continuously changing
markets, with technology developing rapidly. As mentioned by
Mr Wallage last year, digitalisation and the increasing growth in
e-commerce, which are driving the transformation of our
company, can be considered consequences of changing
technology. Technological development is one of the key
market trends that are shaping the lives of our customers and
are impacting our strategy.

PostNL Driving transition | 12 Report of the Supervisory Board

As Mr Wallage rightly mentioned in the Annual Report 2017:
when reading through this Annual Report or browsing on
PostNL’s website, you will read about and experience many of
the things PostNL is doing to adjust to or stay ahead of
technological changes.
2018 was also a year in which we have seen major developments in the regulatory environment. We have welcomed the
recommendations of the postal dialogue and in June, the
related conclusions of the state secretary of Economic Affairs
and Climate Policy, Ms Keijzer. The recognition by the state
secretary of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy that
regulation should reflect the strongly declining postal market is
an important step. We consider consolidation of networks the
best solution to safeguard the accessibility and reliability of
postal delivery for everyone in the Netherlands in the years to
come. The broad parliamentary support for the conclusions of
the state secretary of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy after
the postal dialogue is crucial. The road towards consolidation,
however, is not straightforward due to anti-trust regulation and
the involvement of several stakeholders. Furthermore, on
September 4 the Trade and Industry Appeals Tribunal (College
van Beroep voor het bedrijfsleven, CBb) in The Hague sided
with PostNL in the appeals procedure against the Authority for
Consumers and Markets (ACM) analysis decision on significant
market power (SMP), and annulled that decision. Following this
judgement, we have adjusted conditions and tariffs for network
access for postal operators, taking into account the interests of
our stakeholders, the postal operators and the postal sector as
a whole. Unfortunately, on December 24 the ACM announced a
new draft market analysis decision on SMP, which again will be
an important subject in 2019.
As the Supervisory Board, we believe that PostNL has found the
right balance between adjusting the mail operations in the
challenging Dutch postal market and expanding its footprint as
an e-commerce solutions provider, creating long-term value for
all stakeholders, including our shareholders. We are monitoring
the successful implementation of PostNL’s strategy closely and
with great interest.
In doing so, we believe it is key to take not only financial
indicators but also non-financial indicators into account. When
creating long-term value, we must balance the interests of all
the company’s stakeholders. We have identified two
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which we consider
most relevant for PostNL, being decent work and economic
growth and climate action, and which are outlined in the
business report of this Annual Report. The next step will be to
use these SDG targets as input for our long-term strategy.
Furthermore, we continue to strive for diversity, which for us
comprises more than a balanced male/female ratio, a balanced
age structure or recruiting and promoting multicultural talent
within all levels of management.

54

It also relates to fostering identity acceptance (LGBT), creating
opportunities for people with a distance to the labour market,
or creating teams with diverse mind-sets.

While these support PostNL’s performance ambitions, the
company will need to increase its infrastructure investments to
maintain its strong position in the parcel market.

In performing our duties as Supervisory Board we have
constructive discussions and stimulate openness and
accountability within the Supervisory Board and in the
relationship with the Board of Management, and stimulate
behaviour that is in keeping with the cultural values of PostNL.
As such we believe it is beneficial to once every few years have
an external evaluator perform an evaluation of the functioning
of the Supervisory Board as a whole, the Committees and the
individual members and the interaction with the Board of
Management. This external evaluation was performed in 2018,
and the main outcomes of such evaluation are mentioned in
this chapter.

For Spring, stabilising the Asia business will be important whilst
growing the business in Europe. And in realizing the above, due
attention for IT is required in order to adjust to or stay ahead of
technological changes.

We are pleased with the way Ms Verhagen and Mr Berendsen
are leading the company through its transformation. In this
regard, we as a Supervisory Board are very pleased that Ms
Verhagen is available to continue as CEO of PostNL in this
important phase of the company's journey. Ms Verhagen’s
knowledge, experience and network are instrumental in helping
to lead PostNL through current developments. Therefore, we
have announced our intention to reappoint Ms Verhagen for a
four-year term as CEO of PostNL as of the Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders in 2019.

A view on 2019
Following extensive deliberation on consolidation throughout
the year between the Board of Management and the
Supervisory Board we today announced the intended
acquisition of Sandd. We hope to receive approval for the
intended acquisition during the year and as such complete the
consolidation in line with the broad parliamentary support for
the conclusions of the state secretary of Economic Affairs and
Climate Policy after the postal dialogue.
In 2019 PostNL will also continue to face other important
challenges. Overall it is important to alter the trend on customer
satisfaction, reputation scores and employee engagement. We
expect the outcome of the consultation under the members of
the trade unions on the new PostNL collective labour
agreement and a new collective labour agreement for Saturday
deliverers by the end of February 2019.
In our business performance for Mail, the continued focus on
customer satisfaction and quality, combined with the ongoing
strategy of offsetting volume decline with balanced pricing and
cost savings, remain vital. In this regard the implementation of
the ‘Nieuwe route van de post’ will be a crucial next step. For
Parcels, we are taking advantage of and benefitting from the
opportunities available in the fast-growing e-commerce
business in the Benelux, as well as from technological developments.

PostNL Driving transition | 12 Report of the Supervisory Board

Additionally, we expect a decision on Brexit and insights on the
impact this will have on our UK cross-border business activities,
and we expect the divestment of Postcon and Nexive to be
completed. Furthermore, in terms of new legislation in 2019 we
will prepare for the implementation of the shareholders rights
directive into Dutch legislation.
We strongly believe that PostNL will continue to find a good
balance between adjusting the mail operations in the challenging Dutch postal market, while expanding its footprint as an
e-commerce solutions provider and creating long-term value for
the company’s stakeholders.

Closing remark
In June 2018 I was appointed as Chairman of the Supervisory
Board, replacing Jacques Wallage, who himself replaced Mr
Boersma as Chairman in early 2017. I would like to take this
opportunity to thank Jacques for his excellent work as
Chairman. I am glad Jacques is still around as vice-chairman of
the Supervisory Board.

Meetings of the Supervisory Board
Number of meetings and attendance rate

The Supervisory Board met ten times and had four meetings by
telephone in 2018. All meetings were also attended by the full
Board of Management. Eight meetings were held at PostNL's
head office in The Hague, one meeting was held at the office of
PS Nachtdistributie in Vianen, and one at the location of the
2018 AGM in The Hague. Additionally, the Supervisory Board
organised three informal dinners which took place at locations
not related to PostNL.
The overall attendance percentages and the individual
attendance per meeting can be found in the tables below and
on the next page.
PostNL
Attendance
2018, in %
Attendance
percentage
Supervisory Board (meetings only)

91%

Supervisory Board (incl. conference calls)

91%

Audit Committee
Remuneration Committee
Nomination Committee

55

89%
100%
89%

PostNL
Attendance Supervisory Board members
2018

Name

Supervisory
Board
meetings

Supervisory
Board
conference
calls

Audit
Committee

Nomination
Committee

Remuneration
Committee

Jan
Nooitgedagt¹

6/6

3/3

3/3

2/2

-

Jacques
Wallage

10/10

4/4

-

4/4

3/3

Eelco Blok

10/10

4/4

5/5

-

3/3

Marc Engel

10/10

3/4

5/5

-

3/3

Agnes
Jongerius

10/10

4/4

-

4/4

-

Thessa
Menssen²

6/10

3/4

3/5

3/4

-

Frank
Rövekamp

8/10

4/4

-

3/4

-

¹ Mr Nooitgedagt was appointed as member of the Supervisory Board throughout the year,
only meetings during his tenure are taken into account. He was present as an observer at the
other 4 meetings and 1 conference call of the Supervisory Board in 2018.
² Mrs Menssen was unable to attent the meetings in April until August for private reasons.

Topics discussed
At every meeting, the Supervisory Board discussed business,
financial, market, and regulatory developments in PostNL’s
business segments. In 2018, mail volume decline, the execution
of the cost savings plans, regulation including the ACM decision
on significant market power (SMP), the annulment of this
decision by the Trade and Industry Appeals Tribunal (College
van Beroep voor het bedrijfsleven) and the impact thereof,
consolidation, growing parcel volumes, the strategy of Parcels
and investments in the capacity of Parcels’ infrastructure, the
decision to divest Nexive and Postcon, developments within
Spring, and the progress of our accelerating transformation
were recurring topics. These topics were constructively and
particularly critically discussed in the Supervisory Board and
with the Board of Management. Other topics discussed include
PostNL’s financial position, IT developments, PostNL’s IT
strategy and related topics, such as cyber security, online
strategy, privacy including the implementation of the GDPR,
digital transformation and business continuity, (interim)
dividend and PostNL’s dividend policy, growth, the company's
culture and investor feedback after management roadshows.
Furthermore, the Supervisory Board discussed the investments
in PostNL's infrastructure and acquisitions, the adjustment of
the segment reporting as a consequence of the decision to
divest Nexive and Postcon, the appointment of a new corporate
secretary, the preparation of the AGM and the compliance with
the Code.
The adjustment of PostNL's organisation and networks to the
declining mail volumes and increasing parcel volumes was, and
remains, an important topic in strategic discussions. This also
applies to the impact of regulatory developments on the
company's organisation and performance, as well as
competition in each of the business segments, Parcels and Mail.
The Supervisory Board also discussed new products and
services, innovation and potential areas for growth in the
Netherlands and in the other countries where PostNL operates.

PostNL Driving transition | 12 Report of the Supervisory Board

The Supervisory Board performs an oversight role with respect
to non-financial issues, supported by PostNL’s internal audit
department, which monitors the non-financial governance
structure and reporting. Next to this responsibility, the
Supervisory Board discussed various non-financial (in prior
years called corporate responsibility) related issues, including
labour conditions and the collective labour agreement
negotiations, pensions, career and management development,
the reputation of PostNL, customer satisfaction, employee
engagement, PostNL’s culture, diversity and inclusion, PostNL’s
CO2 efficiency index including measures to improve this index,
the rating of PostNL in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, and
the relations between the Supervisory Board and the Board of
Management with the works councils and trade unions.
The Supervisory Board discussed the 2017 annual results, the
2018 quarterly and half-yearly results and the 2019 budget.
Additionally, the 2017 auditor’s report by PostNL’s external
auditor EY and the 2017 Annual Report (including Financial
Statements and Corporate Responsibility Performance
Statements) were discussed. EY reported that the main areas of
risk (Key audit matters) are discontinued operations (including
deferred tax asset), valuation of Mail investment, deferred
revenue and revenue related accruals (stamps and terminal
dues) and impact of laws and regulation. Compared to the key
audit matters identified in 2017, the accounting for
discontinued operations has been added as a key matter
following the decision to divest Nexive and Postcon. Pensions
no longer qualifies as a key audit matter since EY concluded
based on the actual coverage ratio of the pension fund the
current risk in relation to an additional funding requirement as
per 31 December 2018 to be remote. EY furthermore reported
that during the year PostNL took various measures in mitigating
(previously) identified control deficiencies, especially in
relation to contract and document management. EY is
comfortable that PostNL is addressing the risks, they however
stress the importance to implement effective preventive and
automated IT application controls including sufficient test
control documentation.
Each business segment presented its strategic plan and the
Board of Management presented the strategic plan for PostNL
as a whole, including financial objectives, outlook and the main
risks for PostNL. The outcome of the risk management process,
the main risks identified, and the mitigation plans in place to
manage these risks were shared with the Audit Committee and
with the Supervisory Board. A description of PostNL’s major
risks and its risk management can be found in chapter 14: Risk
management.
Twice a year, the Supervisory Board discusses a litigation
overview, describing claims (including tax) against PostNL and
litigation concerning PostNL (with a threshold of €250,000).
The Supervisory Board also receives an update on integrity
(including the fraud & whistle-blower report) twice a year.

56

The Supervisory Board discussed its composition and that of its
committees and the profile of the Supervisory Board. The
Supervisory Board also discussed the succession of Mr Bos,
including the appointment and remuneration of Mr Berendsen
as the new CFO, and the reappointment of Ms Verhagen as CEO.
More details about the Supervisory Board can be found in
chapter 13: Corporate Governance and is, as such, part of this
Report of the Supervisory Board.

Meetings of the committees of the
Supervisory Board
Audit Committee

The Audit Committee met five times in 2018. In general, all
meetings are attended by the CFO, director Audit & Security,
director Finance, and the external auditor, EY. The CEO attends
the Audit Committee meetings when the half-year and full-year
results are being discussed. The chairman of the Audit
Committee meets the external auditor without management
regularly. Additionally, the director Audit & Security regularly
meets the chairman of the Audit Committee without
management, and meets the chairman of the Supervisory
Board at least once a year.
At each meeting, the Audit Committee discusses the results of
and developments in PostNL’s business segments. In 2018, the
Audit Committee discussed PostNL’s full-year 2017 results, the
outlook for 2018, the 2018 first quarter, half-year and third
quarter results and the related press releases, and the 2019
budget. Furthermore, the Audit Committee discussed the
Eumedion, VEB and VBDO focus letters, the risk paragraph and
the quantity and quality of the explanatory notes in the
financial reports of the 2018 Annual Report and the preparation
of PostNL’s 2018 Annual Report.
The main financial factors influencing the strategic plan and
PostNL’s financial performance, including volume
developments, pricing, cost savings, competition, regulatory
developments, economic developments, pensions, and
employee conditions were discussed. The Audit Committee
also discussed (interim) dividend and dividend policy, PostNL’s
pension obligations, the divestment of Postcon and Nexive, and
the relevant 2018 tax matters, including matters such as
transparency, tax planning, and tax risk management.
The Audit Committee discussed reports on internal control and
risk management (reports which are, if necessary, also
discussed in the Supervisory Board). Reports from the internal
audit function and the external auditor, including the internal
audit and EY's audit plan and EY’s board reports, were discussed
regularly. The Audit Committee receives and discusses
half-yearly updates on integrity issues (including the fraud &
whistle-blower report), claims and litigation, compliance and
any actions taken by management, if applicable. The external
audit fees were discussed and approved, and the contract with
EY, ending following the audit over 2018, was discussed.

PostNL Driving transition | 12 Report of the Supervisory Board

Contemplated changes in the laws and regulations governing
financial reporting, the quality assessment and performance of
PostNL’s internal audit function and the development of the
actions to mitigate the deficiencies reported by the external
and internal audit functions over 2017 were discussed.
Fortunately, no material fraud-related incidents were reported
in 2018.

Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee met four times in 2018.
Supervisory Board reappointments were discussed, as were the
composition of the Supervisory Board and its committees. The
Nomination Committee discussed the selection and
appointment for the CFO position. The Nomination Committee
also discussed succession planning and talent management in
respect of the Supervisory Board, the Board of Management
and senior management and the appointment of an external
evaluator to perform the evaluation of the Supervisory Board.
Furthermore, the Nomination Committee discussed the
reappointment of Ms Verhagen as CEO.

Remuneration Committee
In 2018, the Remuneration Committee held three meetings. It
discussed the remuneration of the members of the Board of
Management and the Executive Committee and of senior
management, PostNL’s remuneration policy and the
preparation of the discussion of the remuneration policy at the
2018 AGM. Further details on remuneration for the Board of
Management and the Supervisory Board can be found in
chapter 15: Remuneration report, which includes a further
explanation of the remuneration policy and the actual
remuneration and relationship between remuneration and
performance of members of the Board of Management for
2018.

Evaluation of the Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board is responsible for the quality of its own
performance. As such, the Supervisory Board discusses its
functioning and that of its committees and members annually.
For 2018, the Supervisory Board decided to have an external
evaluator perform the evaluation. The evaluation process
consisted of interviews by the external evaluator with all
Supervisory Board members, the members of the Board of
Management and the corporate secretary, leading to an
evaluation report, which was discussed in the February 2019
meeting of the Supervisory Board.
The emphasis of the evaluation was put on board room
dynamics / board effectiveness and not so much compliance.
The Supervisory Board feels the relationship between the
Board of Management and Supervisory Board is healthy. The
composition of the Supervisory Board is balanced and
complementary, making the way of working, its judgement and
decision making powers adequate. The Supervisory Board
takes due consideration of the interests of all stakeholders of
the company. It is positive about the professionalism and

57

quality of the management reports and the information
provided by the Board of Management. Discussions are
conducted in a way that ensures open communication,
meaningful participation allowing for civil disagreement and
critical thinking. All members of the Supervisory Board have
demonstrated that they have enough time to fulfil their duties
as members of the Supervisory Board in an adequate manner.
There is also room for improvement, for example in acting as a
sparring partner to the Board of Management, in taking more
time for reflection on business developments and strategy
(rather than discussing only the contents of the meeting
documents), and in addressing less effective behavior in
meetings if such occurs. Furthermore the Supervisory Board
could take more time for discussion with the Supervisory Board
only. Also, taking into account the rotation plan of the
Supervisory Board and the transformation PostNL is in, even
more attention is required for the composition of the
Supervisory Board for the coming years.

PostNL Driving transition | 12 Report of the Supervisory Board

58

13 Corporate governance
PostNL N.V. is a limited liability company listed on Euronext Amsterdam and governed
by Dutch corporate law. PostNL has a two-tier governance structure with a Board of
Management entrusted with executive management under the supervision of an
independent Supervisory Board. Each Board is accountable to the general meeting of
shareholders for the performance of its duties. PostNL is a so-called large company
(structuurvennootschap). The large company regime provides for a legal framework,
which determines the corporate management structure as well as the powers and
duties of the Boards.

Board of Management

The Board of Management and its duties
The Board of Management manages PostNL. It is collectively
responsible for setting and implementing our mission, vision,
strategy, objectives and culture, the risk profile laid down in our
strategy, the company’s financing, the non-financial policy,
external communication and compliance with all relevant
legislation. It is also responsible for the continuity and
management of the company as a whole and for all decisions
taken in this respect.
The Board of Management acts in accordance with the
interests of the company and looks after the long-term value
creation of the company as a whole. To that end, it considers all
relevant interests associated with the company and is
committed to managing the company transparently.
The Board of Management performs its activities under the
supervision of the Supervisory Board. It informs the Supervisory
Board of significant developments and discusses, inter alia, risk
management, internal control, integrity and compliance
systems with the Supervisory Board and its Audit Committee.
PostNL’s Supervisory Board evaluates the functioning of the
Board of Management and that of its individual members
annually. It discusses the conclusions following such evaluation,
also in light of the succession of the members of the Board of
Management. Furthermore, the Board of Management itself
evaluates its own functioning and that of its individual
members.
Specific staff departments – Internal Audit, Legal, Tax,
Procurement & Services, Human Resources, Investor Relations,
Treasury, Public Affairs, Communication and Finance – support
the Board of Management and the business segments in the
performance of their duties and ensure compliance with
applicable laws and regulations.

The Disclosure Committee advises and assists the Board of
Management in ensuring compliance with regulations relating
to the publication of price-sensitive information. The Disclosure
Committee is composed of the CFO, legal director, investor
relations director, communications director, and the corporate
secretary. The Disclosure Committee reports directly to the
Board of Management. The terms of reference of the Disclosure
Committee can be found on our website.
The Integrity Committee advises and assists the Board of
Management in developing, implementing and monitoring
Group policies aimed at enhancing integrity and ethical behaviour and at preventing irregularities, misconduct and fraud.
The Integrity Committee oversees investigations based on
reports of possible breaches under our Business Principles and
related policies. More information on integrity and the Integrity
Committee can be found in chapter 14, Risk Management.
Members of the Board of Management are appointed and can
be suspended or dismissed by the Supervisory Board. A
decision by the Supervisory Board to dismiss a member of the
Board of Management can only be taken after the General
Meeting of Shareholders has been consulted on the intended
dismissal.
Further details on the appointment and dismissal of members
of the Board of Management can be found in our articles of
association, which are available on our website.
The by-laws of the Board of Management can be found on our
website.

The Executive Committee and its duties

The Board of Management incorporated the following bodies
to ensure compliance with applicable corporate governance
requirements: A Disclosure Committee and an Integrity
Committee.

PostNL has an Executive Committee, which has been installed
to advise and support the Board of Management in its duties
and responsibilities. The Executive Committee assists the Board
of Management in achieving the company’s business objectives
and implementing the strategic goals, and provides support
and expertise in pursuit of the company’s strategic goals. The
Executive Committee is also responsible for managing PostNL’s
senior leadership talent and to manage talent consistently at all
business segments of PostNL.

PostNL Driving transition | 13 Corporate governance

59

In the performance of its responsibilities, the Executive
Committee shall act in accordance with the interests of PostNL
and the business connected with it, taking into consideration
the interests of PostNL’s stakeholders. The members of the
Executive Committee have regular contact with the Supervisory
Board, both formally (in meetings of the Supervisory Board)
and informally (at the initiative of a member of the Executive
Committee or of a member of the Supervisory Board). The CEO
acts as the first contact between the Executive Committee and
the Supervisory Board and its Chairman.

At year-end 2018, the Executive Committee consisted of the
following seven members:
Herna Verhagen (CEO and chairman)
Pim Berendsen (CFO)
Resi Becker, responsible for Mail in the Netherlands
Arno van Bijnen, responsible for Customer Excellence and CBS
Bob van Ierland, responsible for HR
Liesbeth Kaashoek, responsible for Parcels and Logistic
solutions
Marcel Krom, responsible for IT and Growth.

The Executive Committee consists of the members of the Board
of Management and the directors of the PostNL businesses
(Mail in the Netherlands and Parcels and Logistic solutions),
Customer Excellence, HR and IT. The responsibility for
day-to-day management of the PostNL business segments is
decentralised within established standards, processes,
requirements and guidelines. Each Executive Committee
member bears responsibility for the operations and
management in his or her business segment or staff function, in
line with PostNL’s policies, values and principles and
compliance standards.

Biographies Board of Management

The Board of Management reviews and assesses the
performance of the Executive Committee, as well as the
effectiveness of the governance structure of the Executive
Committee, at least once a year. In doing so, the Board of
Management shall take account of the checks and balances
that are part of PostNL’s two-tier system, such as whether the
Supervisory Board is informed adequately.

Ms Verhagen is responsible for Mail in the Netherlands, Parcels
and Logistic solutions, CBS, Growth and Customer Excellence.
Furthermore, her portfolio includes corporate strategy, public
affairs, communication, corporate responsibility, human
resources, IT and internal audit.

With the exception of the members of the Board of
Management, Executive Committee members are appointed,
suspended and dismissed by the Board of Management.
The by-laws of the Executive Committee can be found on our
website.

Composition Board of Management and
Executive Committee
At year-end 2018, the Board of Management consisted of two
members: the chairman and chief executive officer (CEO) Ms
H.W.P.M.A. Verhagen and the chief financial officer (CFO) Mr P.
Berendsen. Mr Berendsen, previously director International and
Growth, was appointed CFO as per 18 April 2018. In light of the
appointment of Mr Berendsen, the composition of the
Executive Committee was changed as per the same date,
whereby the responsibility for Postcon and Nexive was vested
with the CFO, the responsibility for Cross Border Solutions
(CBS) was vested with the director Customer Excellence and
the responsibility for Growth was vested with the director IT. As
such, the number of Executive Committee members was
decreased from eight to seven.

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

H.W.P.M.A. (Herna) Verhagen (1966, Dutch, female)
– Chief Executive Officer
Ms Verhagen became chief executive officer on 24 April 2012.
She was appointed member of the Board of Management per
31 May 2011 and reappointed per 14 April 2015 for a period of
four years. Ms Verhagen started working for one of the legal
predecessors of PostNL in 1991 as sales manager. Subsequent
roles included marketing & sales director, coordinating
managing director Mail NL in the Mail division and managing
director Group HR of TNT.

Ms Verhagen is a member of the Supervisory Boards of
Rexel S.A. (France), and the Concertgebouw (Amsterdam
concert hall). She is a member of the Executive Committee of
the Confederation of Netherlands Industry and Employers
(VNO-NCW).
Ms Verhagen holds no positions as referred to in article 2:132a
of the Dutch Civil Code. This article is described as "number of
supervisory positions" in Appendix 3: Glossary and definitions.

P. Berendsen (1973, Dutch, male) – Chief Financial
Officer
Mr Berendsen was appointed chief financial officer and
member of the Board of Management per 18 april 2018 for a
period of four years. Mr Berendsen joined PostNL and its legal
predecessors in 2000 and held various positions, including
financial director and managing director Data and Document
Management Unit, financial director Euromail and manager
strategy and M&A of Cendris. Between 2013 and 2015 he was
director corporate development of Van Gansewinkel Group,
returning to PostNL in 2015 to become member of the
Executive Committee, responsible for International, M&A and
Growth. He started his career as international tax advisor at
Arthur Andersen.
Mr Berendsen is responsible for Nexive and Postcon, legal,
procurement & services, investor relations, M&A, tax and
finance.

PostNL Driving transition | 13 Corporate governance

60

Mr Berendsen is a member of the board of advice of Endeit
Investment Fund and chairman of the Johan Cruijff Foundation.
Mr Berendsen holds no positions as referred to in article 2:132a
of the Dutch Civil Code. This article is described as "number of
supervisory positions" in Appendix 3: Glossary and definitions.

Supervisory Board

The Supervisory Board and its duties
The Supervisory Board is charged with supervising the Board of
Management and the general course of affairs of PostNL, as
well as assisting the Board of Management with advice. The
Supervisory Board evaluates the main organisational structure
and the risk management, internal control, integrity and
compliance systems established by the Board of Management,
as well as the general and financial risks.
In performing its duties, the Supervisory Board acts in
accordance with the interests of PostNL and considers the
relevant interests of the company’s stakeholders. The
responsibility for proper performance of its duties is vested in
the Supervisory Board as a whole. Members of the Supervisory
Board perform their duties without mandate and independent
of any particular interest in the company's business. Members
of the Supervisory Board may take views that differ from those
of the Board of Management. PostNL’s Supervisory Board is
responsible for the quality of its own performance, which is
reviewed annually.
The Supervisory Board performs an oversight role with respect
to corporate responsibility issues supported by PostNL’s
internal audit function and the company’s external auditors
who monitor the non-financial governance structure and
reporting.
The Board of Management provides the Supervisory Board with
the information necessary for the proper performance of its
duties in a timely manner. In addition, the Board of
Management is required to provide the means to allow the
Supervisory Board and its individual members to obtain all
information necessary to be able to function as the supervisory
body of PostNL. The Board of Management seeks full
transparency in its communication with the Supervisory Board.
The by-laws of the Supervisory Board can be found on our
website, www.postnl.nl.

Composition of the Supervisory Board
At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on 17 April
2018, the shareholders appointed Mr Nooitgedagt as member
of the Supervisory Board for a period of four years. At the same
time, Mr Wallage was reappointed for a period of two years. As
per 19 June 2018, Mr Nooitgedagt was appointed chairman of
the Supervisory Board, and Mr Wallage was appointed vice
chairman.

PostNL Driving transition | 13 Corporate governance

At year-end 2018, the Supervisory Board consisted of seven
members: the chairman of the Supervisory Board, Mr
Nooitgedagt (who is also chairman of the Nomination
Committee); Mr Wallage (vice chairman of the Supervisory
Board and chairman of the Remuneration Committee); Mr Blok;
Ms Menssen (chairman of the Audit Committee); Ms Jongerius;
Mr Engel; and Mr Rövekamp.
At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2019,
Ms Menssen will be available for reappointment as Supervisory
Board member for a period of two years.
The following table provides an overview of the composition of
the Supervisory Board committees per year-end 2018.
PostNL
Composition of Supervisory Board committees
2018
Committee

Audit

Remuneration

Nomination

Chair

Thessa Menssen

Jacques Wallage

Jan Nooitgedagt

Member

Eelco Blok

Eelco Blok

Jacques Wallage

Member

Marc Engel

Marc Engel

Agnes Jongerius

Member

Thessa Menssen

Member

Frank Rövekamp

Members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by
the General Meeting of Shareholders following nomination by
the Supervisory Board. The General Meeting of Shareholders
can dismiss the Supervisory Board in its entirety by an absolute
majority of the votes cast representing at least one-third of the
issued share capital. According to the by-laws and the profile of
the Supervisory Board, a person may be appointed to the
Supervisory Board for a maximum period of four years and may
then be reappointed once for another four-year period. The
Supervisory Board member may subsequently be reappointed
again for a period of two years, and this appointment may be
extended by at most two years. PostNL’s articles of association
provide that members of the Supervisory Board shall resign
periodically in accordance with a rotation plan drawn up by the
Supervisory Board in order to limit the number of simultaneous
appointments or reappointments. The rotation plan is available
on our website. Further details on the appointment and
dismissal of members of the Supervisory Board can be found in
our articles of association.
Pursuant to our articles of association, the Supervisory Board
has at least three members. Taking this requirement into
account, the Supervisory Board decides on the number of its
members. At the date of this report, the Supervisory Board
consists of seven members. The Supervisory Board prepared a
profile of its size and composition, taking into account the
nature of PostNL’s business and activities and the desired
expertise, competences, diversity and background of the
members of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board also
adopted a diversity policy for PostNL addressing the
composition of the Supervisory Board, Board of Management
and Executive Committee. This policy can be found on our

61

website, www.postnl.nl. The Supervisory Board ensures that its
composition meets the required profile and is as independent
and diverse as possible, assuring sufficient knowledge of mail
and communication, logistics, corporate responsibility,
management, public affairs, IT, finance, corporate governance
and the capital markets. A Supervisory Board member must be
capable of assessing the broad outline of the company’s overall
policy and should have the specific expertise required to fulfil
the duties assigned to his or her designated role within the
framework of the profile. Each member should have sufficient
time available for the proper performance of his or her duties.
The Supervisory Board evaluates its profile regularly and
discusses the profile at the Annual General Meeting of
Shareholders and with PostNL’s central works council when it
amends the profile. The profile of the Supervisory Board is
available on our website.

Chairman
The chairman of the Supervisory Board determines the agenda
and presides over meetings of the Supervisory Board. The
chairman is responsible for the proper functioning of the
Supervisory Board and its committees. In addition, the
chairman arranges an introduction and training programme for
new members of the Supervisory Board and initiates the
evaluation of the performance of the members of the
Supervisory Board and the Board of Management. The
chairman of the Supervisory Board may not be a former
member of PostNL’s Board of Management.

Committees of the Supervisory Board
PostNL’s Supervisory Board has an Audit Committee,
Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee. The
committees have an advisory role based on a mandate from the
Supervisory Board. Only the Supervisory Board has
decision-making power. Each committee reports its
deliberations, findings and recommendations after each
meeting to the full Supervisory Board. The committees operate
pursuant to terms of reference set by the Supervisory Board in
accordance with the law and the Code. The terms of reference
are available on our website.

Audit Committee
The Audit Committee assists and advises the Supervisory Board
and prepares the decision-making of the Supervisory Board on
the monitoring of the integrity and quality of the financial
reporting by the company and on the effectiveness of the
internal risk management and control systems of the company.
The Audit Committee focuses inter alia on the supervision of
the Board of Management concerning (i) the integrity of the
company’s financial and corporate responsibility reporting
(including but not limited to the choice of accounting policies,
application and assessment of the effects of new rules,
information about the handling of estimated items in the
financial statements and forecasts), (ii) the external auditor's
qualifications and independence, remuneration and non-audit

PostNL Driving transition | 13 Corporate governance

services for the company, (iii) the relationship with the external
auditor and the compliance by PostNL with the
recommendations from the external auditor and the internal
audit function, (iv) the company’s financing, (v) the company's
tax policy, (vi) the application of information and
communication technology by the company, including the risks
related to cyber security, and (vii) compliance with relevant
legislation and codes of conduct.
The Audit Committee consists of at least three members. All
members of the Audit Committee are members of the
Supervisory Board who are independent within the meaning of
the by-laws of the Supervisory Board and the applicable
corporate governance rules. A member of the Audit Committee
shall not simultaneously serve on the Audit Committee of more
than two other companies unless the Supervisory Board
determines that this simultaneous service would not impair the
ability of such a member to serve effectively on the Audit
Committee.
Each member of the Audit Committee must be financially
literate and at least one member of the Audit Committee shall
be a financial expert, with relevant knowledge and expertise of
financial administration and accounting for listed companies or
other large companies.

Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee assists the Supervisory Board on
matters relating to the appointment procedures for members
of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management and
procedures to secure adequate succession of members of the
Board of Management and the assessment of such candidates,
and with assessing the size and composition of the Supervisory
Board and the Board of Management. The Nomination
Committee prepares proposals for nominations, appointments
and reappointments. At least once a year, the size and
composition of the Supervisory Board and the Board of
Management and the functioning of the individual members
are assessed by the Nomination Committee and discussed by
the Supervisory Board.
The Nomination Committee consists of at least three members,
including the chairman (or vice chairman) of the Supervisory
Board. All members of the Nomination Committee are
members of the Supervisory Board and are independent within
the meaning of the by-laws of the Supervisory Board and the
applicable corporate governance rules.

Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee proposes a clear and
understandable remuneration policy to be pursued and the
remuneration of the individual members of the Board of
Management, which proposal shall be prepared in accordance
with the remuneration policy, proposes common targets for
members of the Board of Management for the three coming
years, prepares the remuneration report, reviews the granting
of company shares or options for company shares to other

62

senior management of the company pursuant to its share
plans, and prepares a clear and understandable proposal for the
remuneration of Supervisory Board members for submission to
the General Meeting of Shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee consists of at least three
members. The chairman of the Remuneration Committee shall
not simultaneously be the chairman of the Supervisory Board.
All members of the Remuneration Committee are members of
the Supervisory Board and are independent within the meaning
of the by-laws of the Supervisory Board and the applicable
corporate governance rules.

Information by external parties
The Supervisory Board and its committees may hire
independent advisors as it deems appropriate. There is an
agreed procedure for members of the Supervisory Board to
obtain independent professional advice paid for by the
company, if so required.

Biographies Supervisory Board
All members of the Supervisory Board are Dutch and
independent within the meaning of provision 2.1.7 of the Code.
Their ages range from 51 to 72. The majority of the members
possess a university or equivalent degree. Fields of expertise
and experience range from administration/public
administration and general management to experience in
labour issues or a commercial background. The Supervisory
Board evaluates the required competences regularly. The
competences matrix of the Supervisory Board is available on
our website.

J.J. (Jan) Nooitgedagt (1953, Dutch, male) –
Chairman Supervisory Board
Mr Nooitgedagt was appointed member of the Supervisory
Board on 17 April 2018 and chairman of the Supervisory Board
on 19 June 2018. His current term expires in 2022. Mr
Nooitgedagt is chairman of the Supervisory Board of TMG and
member of the supervisory board of Bank Nederlandse
Gemeenten and Rabobank. Additionally, his other positions
include chair of the board of VEUO (Association of listed AEX
companies) and foundation Nyenrode, member of the audit
committee of the ministry of Security and Justice, and member
of the advisory committee Financial Reporting and
Accountancy of the Authority Financial Markets, and of the
advisory committee governance, risk and compliance of the
Dutch Institute of Chartered Accountants (NBA).
Mr Nooitgedagt was formerly member of the executive board
and CFO of AEGON and held different positions at EY, ultimately as managing partner for the Netherlands and Belgium

J. (Jacques) Wallage (1946, Dutch, male) – Vice
chairman Supervisory Board
Mr Wallage was appointed member of the Supervisory Board
on 8 April 2010. His current term expires in 2020. Mr Wallage is
co-chairman of the Consultative Body Infrastructure and
Environment. He is an honorary professor at the University of
Groningen, the Netherlands (transition in public
administration).
He was a member of the Dutch Second Chamber of Parliament
and served as a state secretary for Education and Sciences and
as a state secretary for Social Affairs and Employment. He was
mayor of the city of Groningen from 1998 until 2009.
Mr Wallage holds two positions as referred to in article 2:142a
of the Dutch Civil Code. This article is described as "number of
supervisory positions" in Appendix 3: Glossary and definitions.

E. (Eelco) Blok (1957, Dutch, male)
Mr Blok was appointed member of the Supervisory Board on 18
April 2017. His current term expires in 2021. He is a member of
the Supervisory Board of Signify, non-executive director of
Telstra and advisor to the board of Reggeborgh Groep.
Mr Blok was CEO and chairman of the management board of
KPN. Before joining KPN’s management board, Mr. Blok held
various positions within KPN (and its legal predecessors).
Mr Blok holds two positions as referred to in article 2:142a of
the Dutch Civil Code. This article is described as "number of
supervisory positions" in Appendix 3: Glossary and definitions.

J.W.M. (Marc) Engel (1966, Dutch, male)
Mr Engel was appointed member of the Supervisory Board on
16 April 2013. His current term expires in 2021. He is Chief
Supply Chain Officer and member of Unilever Leadership
Executive, London.
Since 1995, he has held several positions within the Unilever
group. Before that, he worked at Shell International.
Mr Engel holds one position as referred to in article 2:142a of
the Dutch Civil Code. This article is described as "number of
supervisory positions" in Appendix 3: Glossary and definitions.

A.M. (Agnes) Jongerius (1960, Dutch, female)
Ms Jongerius was appointed member of the Supervisory Board
on 16 April 2013. Her current term expires in 2021. She is a
member of the European Parliament.
She was president of the Dutch Trade Union Confederation
(FNV), a member of the Social and Economic Council (SER) and
workers' chair of the Labour Foundation.

Mr Nooitgedagt holds five positions as referred to in article
2:142a of the Dutch Civil Code. This article is described as
"number of supervisory positions" in Appendix 3: Glossary and
definitions.

Ms Jongerius holds one position as referred to in article 2:142a
of the Dutch Civil Code. This article is described as "number of
supervisory positions" in Appendix 3: Glossary and definitions.

PostNL Driving transition | 13 Corporate governance

63

T. (Thessa) Menssen (1967, Dutch, female)
Ms Menssen was appointed member of the Supervisory Board
on 25 May 2011. Her current term expires in 2019. She is a
member of the Supervisory Board of the Dutch Development
Bank (FMO), the Kröller Müller Museum and the National
Maritime Museum.
Ms Menssen was chief financial officer and member of the
Executive Board of Royal BAM Group and chief operating officer
of the Port Authority of Rotterdam, and member of the
Supervisory Board of the Rotterdam Philharmonic Orchestra.
Ms Menssen holds one position as referred to in article 2:142a
of the Dutch Civil Code. This article is described as "number of
supervisory positions" in Appendix 3: Glossary and definitions.

F.H. (Frank) Rövekamp (1955, Dutch, male)
Mr Rövekamp was appointed member of the Supervisory Board
on 24 April 2012. His current term expires in 2020. He is
chairman of the Supervisory Boards of Vodafone Germany
GmbH, Calco BV, Vereniging Vluchtelingenwerk Nederland,
Royal Theatre Carré and Kasteel de Haar.

In the event of a conflict of interest between PostNL and a
member of the Board of Management, the company will be
represented by another member of the Board of Management
or a member of the Supervisory Board appointed by the
Supervisory Board for this purpose.
A decision to enter into a transaction involving a conflict of
interest with a member of the Board of Management or the
Supervisory Board, material or not, to the company or to the
relevant member requires the approval of the Supervisory
Board. No such transactions were entered into in 2018, so best
practice provisions 2.7.3 and 2.7.4 of the Code did not apply.
The by-laws of the Board of Management and the Supervisory
Board also include a provision that a member of the Board of
Management or the Supervisory Board does not participate in
any discussion or decision-making that involves a subject or
transaction in relation to which the member has a conflict of
interest with the company. In 2018, there were no cases
whereby conflict of interest occurred.

Insider trading – share ownership

He was a non-executive member of the Board of UNIT4,
member of the Executive Committee and group Chief
Commercial Officer of Vodafone Group, president and CEO of
Beyoo and senior vice president (marketing and revenue
management) of KLM Royal Dutch Airlines.

Members of the Supervisory Board, the Board of Management
and PostNL’s senior management are subject to the PostNL
Group Policy on Prevention of Insider Trading, which sets rules
to prevent insider trading in our financial instruments and in
securities other than PostNL’s financial instruments.

Mr Rövekamp holds one position as referred to in article 2:142a
of the Dutch Civil Code. This article is described as "number of
supervisory positions" in Appendix 3: Glossary and definitions.

Share ownership is not mandatory for members of the Board of
Management and Supervisory Board.

Conflict of interest
Each member of the Board of Management and the
Supervisory Board must immediately report and provide all
relevant information to the chairman of the Supervisory Board
about any conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest,
material or not to the company and/or to the relevant member.
A member of the Board of Management also informs the other
members of the Board of Management (as applicable).
If the chairman of the Supervisory Board has a conflict of
interest or potential conflict of interest that is material to the
company and/or to him, he is required to report this
immediately to the vice chairman of the Supervisory Board and
to provide all relevant information. In all situations, this includes
information concerning a spouse, registered partner or other
life companion, (foster) child or other relatives by blood or
marriage up to the second degree.

The table below lists the total number of PostNL shares held by
each member of the Board of Management, including shares
vested under PostNL’s performance share plan and variable
remuneration. The table does not state the unvested shares
which have been allocated to such members under PostNL’s
performance share plan. None of the Supervisory Board
members holds any PostNL shares at the date of this annual
report.
PostNL
Shares held by Board of Management/Supervisory Board
2017-2018, number of shares
31 Dec 2018

Herna Verhagen

220,417

247,840

Pim Berendsen

23,222

34,851

This table does not include any granted rights on shares allocated to the members
of the Board of Management under PostNL's participation in the variable
compensation scheme. See note 5.1 to the consolidated financial statements and
the chapter Remuneration report under actual remuneration in 2018. The
information in this table is publicly available at www.afm.nl.

The Supervisory Board is responsible for deciding how to
resolve a conflict of interest between members of the Board of
Management, members of the Supervisory Board and/or the
external auditor on the one hand and the company on the
other.

PostNL Driving transition | 13 Corporate governance

31 Dec 2017
Board of Management

64

Diversity
As described elsewhere in this Annual Report, PostNL believes
in the strength of diversity and inclusion. We respect and value
differences between people, as they make our organisation
stronger, more innovative and more appealing. This also
translates into our aim for diversity in the composition of the
Executive Committee, Board of Management and Supervisory
Board. The Supervisory Board seeks to promote diversity
among the members of the Executive Committee, Board of
Management and Supervisory Board with regard to age, sex,
level of expertise and experience, and nationality. We aim to
create a balance, to the extent possible, in which the diversity
referred to above is expressed and where the objective is to
comply, at the very least, with the statutory requirements.
Please be referred to our Diversity and inclusion policy which
can be found on the PostNL website.
Pursuant to the Dutch Civil Code, at least 30% of the seats on
PostNL’s Board of Management and Supervisory Board should
be filled by men and at least 30% by women, in order to qualify
as balanced. PostNL’s Executive Committee has seven
members, of which three are female, i.e. 42.9% of the seats
filled by women. The Board of Management has one female
and one male member, i.e. 50% of the seats filled by women.
Consequently, the Board of Management and the Executive
Committee have a balanced representation of men and
women. The Supervisory Board has seven members, of which
two are women, i.e. 28.6% of the seats filled by women.
Consequently, the Supervisory Board does not fully meet the
required 30% female representation.
As follows from PostNL’s diversity policy and the profile of the
Supervisory Board, diversity is taken into account when
selecting candidates in case of a vacancy in the Executive
Committee, Board of Management and Supervisory Board.
Ultimately, the capacities of the selected candidates are
assessed irrespective of the candidate's gender and the most
qualified candidates will be nominated for appointment.
In 2018, Mr Wallage was up for reappointment as member of
the Supervisory Board. Mr Berendsen was appointed as CFO of
the Board of Management replacing Mr. J.P.P. Bos, who
stepped down from his position. Other than the departure of Mr
Bos, the composition of the Executive Committee remained
unchanged in 2018.

Corporate secretary
The Executive Committee, Board of Management and
Supervisory Board are assisted by PostNL’s corporate
secretary. All members of the Executive Committee, Board of
Management and Supervisory Board have access to the advice
and services of the corporate secretary, who is responsible for
ensuring that the Executive Committee, Board of Management
and Supervisory Board procedures are followed and that each
of these bodies acts in accordance with the law, the articles of
association and the relevant by-laws.

PostNL Driving transition | 13 Corporate governance

Shareholders and their rights
General meeting of shareholders

PostNL is required to hold an Annual General Meeting of
Shareholders within six months of the end of the financial year.
The agenda for this meeting includes the adoption of the
financial statements, a proposal on dividend and the release
from liability of the members of the Board of Management and
the Supervisory Board for the performance of their respective
duties during the financial year. This release only covers liability
for matters reflected in the relevant financial statements or
otherwise disclosed to the General Meeting of Shareholders
prior to the adoption of the relevant financial statements.
General Meetings of Shareholders are held as often as the
Board of Management or the Supervisory Board deem
necessary, and shall be convened in case of a decision entailing
a significant change in the identity or character of PostNL or its
business.
Furthermore, the Supervisory Board and the Board of
Management are in principle required to convene a
shareholders meeting in case one or more shareholders
representing at least 10% of PostNL’s issued share capital so
request in writing, stating the proposed agenda in detail.
General Meetings of Shareholders may be held in Amsterdam,
The Hague, Hoofddorp or in the municipality of
Haarlemmermeer (Schiphol).
One or more shareholders representing at least 1% of PostNL’s
issued share capital are entitled to request that the Board of
Management or the Supervisory Board place items on the
agenda of a General Meeting of Shareholders. Such a request
must be honoured by the Board of Management or the
Supervisory Board, provided that the request is received in
writing at least 60 days before the date of such a meeting. In
the event a request is made by one or more shareholders to
either convene a meeting or to place an item on the agenda of a
General Meeting of Shareholders that may result in a change of
the company’s strategy, the Board of Management is entitled
to a reasonable period in which to respond, which shall not
exceed 180 days.
The Central Works Council of PostNL has the right to form an
opinion on proposals to determine or modify the policy on the
remuneration of the Board of Management, proposals that
entail a significant change in the identity or character of the
company or its business and proposals to appoint a member of
the Supervisory Board. The Central Works Council has the right
to explain its position during the General Meeting of
Shareholders.
General Meetings of Shareholders are convened at least 42
days in advance by a notice published on the company’s
website.

65

Each shareholder is entitled to attend a General Meeting of
Shareholders, either in person or by written or electronic proxy,
to address the meeting and to exercise voting rights, subject to
the provisions of PostNL’s articles of association. An eligible
shareholder has the aforementioned rights if registered as a
shareholder on the applicable record date to the extent
described by Dutch law.
Each PostNL share carries the right to cast one vote. Unless
Dutch law or PostNL's articles of association stipulate
otherwise, resolutions are passed by a simple majority of votes
cast by the shareholders present or represented at the
meeting. Pursuant to PostNL’s articles of association, there are
no limitations to the rights of Dutch, non-resident or foreign
shareholders to hold or exercise voting rights in respect of
PostNL’s securities.

General meeting of shareholders 2018
On 17 April 2018, PostNL held its Annual General Meeting of
Shareholders in The Hague, the Netherlands. The attendance
rate was 33.92% of the total outstanding share capital.
At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, the following
resolutions were adopted:
The adoption of the 2017 financial statements,
The appropriation of profit over the financial year 2017
The release of the Board of Management and Supervisory
Board from liability for the performance of their respective
duties during the financial year 2017
The appointment of Mr Nooitgedagt and the reappointment
of Mr Wallage as members of the Supervisory Board
Extension of the mandate granted to the Board of
Management to issue ordinary shares until 17 October 2019
(limited to 10% of the issued capital at the time of issue and
an additional 10% of the issued capital at the time of issue in
case of a merger or an acquisition)
Extension of the mandate granted to the Board of
Management to limit or exclude pre-emptive rights to issue
ordinary shares until 17 October 2019 (limited to 10% of the
issued capital at the time of issue and an additional 10% of the
issued capital at the time of issue in case of a merger or an
acquisition).
●

●

●

●

●

Liquidation rights
In the event of PostNL’s dissolution and liquidation, the assets
remaining after payment of all debts and liquidation expenses
are to be distributed in the following order of preference: firstly,
to the holders of all outstanding preference shares B (if any),
the nominal amount paid up on these shares plus accumulated
dividends for preceding years that have not yet been paid; and
secondly, to holders of ordinary shares in proportion to their
shareholdings.

Changes to the rights of shareholders
Rights of shareholders may change by way of an amendment
to the articles of association, a statutory merger or demerger
within the meaning of book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, or
dissolution of the company. A resolution of the General
Meeting of Shareholders is required to effect these changes.
Under PostNL's articles of association, such a resolution may
only be adopted upon a proposal by the Board of Management
that has been approved by the Supervisory Board.

Major shareholders
To PostNL’s knowledge, it is not directly or indirectly owned or
controlled by another company or by any government. PostNL
does not know of any arrangements of which the operation
might, at a subsequent date, result in a change of control,
except as described under ‘Foundation Continuity PostNL and
preference shares B’ below.
The Financial Markets Supervision Act (Wet op het financieel
toezicht) imposes a duty to disclose percentage holdings in the
capital and/or underlying financial instruments and/or voting
rights in the company when such holding reaches, exceeds or
falls below 3%, 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 40%, 50%,
60%, 75% and 95%. Such a disclosure must be made to the
Dutch Financial Markets Authority (AFM) without delay. The
AFM then notifies the company.

●

Articles of association, share
acquisition, reduction and increase of
issued share capital
Amendment of the articles of association

Minutes of the meeting are available in Dutch only.

The company’s articles of association can be amended upon a
proposal by the Board of Management, approved by the
Supervisory Board and adopted by the General Meeting of
Shareholders. A proposal to amend the articles of association
must be stated in a notice convening a General Meeting of
Shareholders and announced in such a manner as permitted by
law at the time. The proposal shall be passed upon an absolute
majority of the votes cast in the General Meeting of
Shareholders. PostNL’s articles of association are available on
our website.

PostNL Driving transition | 13 Corporate governance

66

With respect to the last two bullets, see also the section Articles
of association, share acquisition, reduction and increase of
issued share capital below.
The agenda, resolutions and voting results for each resolution,
the presentations given during the meeting and a webcast of
the meeting are available on our website in Dutch and English.

Ability of the company to acquire its own
shares
Under its articles of association, PostNL may acquire its own
shares, provided that they are fully paid up. If such shares are
acquired for consideration, the following conditions apply:
PostNL’s shareholders' equity less the purchase price may not
fall below the sum of the paid-up capital and any reserves
required to be maintained by Dutch law or pursuant to the
articles of association
Following the share acquisition, PostNL may not hold shares
with an aggregate nominal value exceeding half of its issued
share capital.
●

●

The Board of Management is authorised to decide to acquire
PostNL shares. Such a resolution requires the approval of the
Supervisory Board. In addition, the Board of Management
requires prior authorisation by the General Meeting of
Shareholders. This authorisation may be valid for a period not
exceeding 18 months and must specify:
The number of shares that may be acquired
The manner in which shares may be acquired
The price limits within which shares may be acquired.
●

●

●

Authorisation by the General Meeting of Shareholders is not
required if the PostNL shares are acquired for the purpose of
transferring those shares to PostNL employees pursuant to any
arrangements applicable to such employees.

Reduction of issued share capital in general
The issued share capital may be reduced by the cancellation of
shares following a repurchase. PostNL’s issued share capital
may also be reduced if the nominal value of its shares is
reduced by amendment of PostNL’s articles of association. The
resolution to reduce PostNL’s issued share capital requires the
approval of the General Meeting of Shareholders. Pursuant to
PostNL’s articles of association, such a resolution may be
adopted pursuant to a proposal of the Board of Management
that has been approved by the Supervisory Board. The latter
requirement is more stringent than Dutch law.

Increase of issued share capital by issuance of
shares/pre-emptive rights
PostNL’s Board of Management has been designated as the
body authorised to resolve on the issuance of shares and to
grant rights to subscribe for shares, including options and
warrants. Such a resolution is subject to the approval of the
Supervisory Board. The scope and duration of this authority of
the Board of Management are determined by the General
Meeting of Shareholders. The Board of Management cannot be
authorised to issue more shares than the number of authorised
shares that have not been issued (i.e. the number of authorised
shares minus the number of issued shares). The authority may
not be granted for a period longer than five years.

be extended by amendment of PostNL’s articles of association.
If no extension is given, the issue of shares or granting of rights
to subscribe for shares requires a resolution of the General
Meeting of Shareholders. Such a resolution may only be
adopted pursuant to a proposal by the Board of Management
that has been approved by the Supervisory Board.
In principle, each holder of ordinary shares has a pre-emptive
right in case of any issue of ordinary shares or the granting of
rights to subscribe for these shares.
Pursuant to PostNL’s articles of association, shareholders’
pre-emptive rights may be restricted or excluded by a
resolution of the Board of Management, provided and as long
as the Board of Management has been designated as the body
authorised to resolve on the issuance of shares. Such a
resolution is subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board.
Pursuant to PostNL’s articles of association, the provisions
relating to the scope and duration of the authority to issue
shares and grant rights to subscribe for ordinary shares are also
applicable to the scope and duration of the authority to exclude
or restrict pre-emptive rights.

Dividend
The Board of Management may determine, subject to approval
by the Supervisory Board, that any dividend on ordinary shares
will be paid wholly or partly in PostNL ordinary shares instead
of cash, or that any dividend will be paid by giving shareholders
the option to choose between PostNL ordinary shares or cash
(optional dividends).
If and when dividends are declared, PostNL pays dividends out
of its profits, or by exception out of the distributable part of its
shareholders’ equity as shown in PostNL’s financial statements.
PostNL is not allowed to pay dividends if the payment would
reduce shareholders’ equity below the sum of the paid-up
capital and any reserves required by Dutch law or the
company's articles of association.
The Board of Management may, subject to approval by the
Supervisory Board and to provisions of Dutch law, distribute
interim dividend.
No dividend shall be paid on shares held by PostNL. Such shares
shall not be included for the calculation of the profit
distribution, unless the Board of Management resolves
otherwise. Such a resolution is subject to the approval of the
Supervisory Board.

The term of designation of the Board of Management as the
body authorised to resolve on the issuance of shares may also

Under PostNL’s articles of association, if preference shares B
have been issued, PostNL must pay dividends on the paid-up
portion of the nominal value of the preference shares B.
Payment is made at a rate of the average 12-month EURIBOR
(Euro Interbank Offered Rate), weighted to reflect the number
of days for which the payment is made, plus a premium to be
determined by the Board of Management, subject to approval

PostNL Driving transition | 13 Corporate governance

67

by the Supervisory Board, of at least one percentage point and
at most three percentage points.
The Board of Management then determines, subject to the
approval of the Supervisory Board, the part of the remaining
profits to be appropriated to reserves. The profit that remains
after appropriation is at the disposal of the General Meeting of
Shareholders.
More information about PostNL’s dividend policy can be found
in chapter 17: PostNL on the capital markets, and on our
website. Any changes to these guidelines shall be explained in a
separate agenda item at the Annual General Meeting of
Shareholders.

Foundation Continuity PostNL and
preference shares B
Stichting Continuïteit PostNL (Foundation Continuity PostNL)
was formed to safeguard the interests of PostNL, the
undertaking connected with PostNL and all parties involved. It
does this by, among other things, preventing any influences
that could threaten PostNL’s continuity, independence and
identity, as far as possible. Foundation Continuity PostNL is an
independent legal entity and is not owned or controlled by
PostNL or any other legal person.
PostNL’s articles of association provide for protective
preference shares B that can be issued to Foundation
Continuity PostNL. The preference shares B have a nominal
value of €0.08 and have the same voting rights as PostNL’s
ordinary shares.
PostNL and Foundation Continuity PostNL have entered into a
call option agreement, which enables Foundation Continuity
PostNL to acquire a number of preference shares B not
exceeding the total issued number of shares minus one and
minus any shares already issued to Foundation Continuity
PostNL. The call option agreement is meant as a preventive
measure against influences that might threaten the continuity,
independence and identity of the company. Preference shares
B will be outstanding no longer than strictly necessary. At date
of publication of this Annual Report, there were no preference
shares B issued. The exercise price with respect to the call
option is the nominal value of €0.08 per preference share B,
although upon exercise only €0.02 per preference share B is
required to be paid. The additional €0.06 is due when the Board
of Management, subject to the approval of the Supervisory
Board, requests payment. Foundation Continuity PostNL has
credit facilities in place to enable it to exercise the call option.

PostNL to convene a General Meeting of Shareholders. In
accordance with PostNL’s articles of association, a General
Meeting of Shareholders must be convened no later than 12
months after the first date of issuance of any preference shares
B to Foundation Continuity PostNL. The agenda for that
meeting shall include a resolution regarding the repurchase
and/or cancellation of the preference shares B.
PostNL has granted Foundation Continuity PostNL the right to
file an application for an inquiry into the policy and conduct of
PostNL’s business with the Enterprise Chamber of the
Amsterdam Court of Appeal (Ondernemingskamer). Should
such an inquiry be granted, the Enterprise Chamber may
impose immediate provisions.
As per 31 December 2018, the members of the Board of
Foundation Continuity PostNL were Mr J.H.M. Lindenbergh
(chairman), Mr W. van Vonno, Mr M.P. Nieuwe Weme and Ms
Y.C.M.T. van Rooy. All members of the Board of Foundation
Continuity PostNL are independent from PostNL. This means
that Foundation Continuity PostNL is an independent legal
entity as referred to in section 5:71 paragraph 1 sub c of the
Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act (Wet op het financieel
toezicht).

Shareholder dialogue
PostNL endeavours to stay in regular contact with its
shareholders. The CEO, CFO and the investor relations team
meet with shareholders during roadshows and conduct
individual meetings and calls during the year.
Communication takes place with governance institutions
representing shareholder groups before the Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders and also during the year. PostNL does
not have a specific policy to introduce members of the
Supervisory Board to PostNL shareholders. The company has a
policy on bilateral contacts with the shareholders which is
included in the investor relations policy and published on
PostNL's website. More information about PostNL’s investor
relations can be found in chapter 17: PostNL on the capital
markets.
Furthermore, PostNL organises an annual dialogue with its
stakeholders, in addition to the daily, ongoing contacts with
customers, regulators, interest groups, et cetera. More
information about PostNL’s stakeholder dialogue can be found
in chapter 19: Non-Financial statements, section: 'Basis of
preperation'.

External auditor

Six months after the issuance of preference shares B,
Foundation Continuity PostNL may require PostNL to convene
a General Meeting of Shareholders to discuss cancellation of
these shares. However, if within these six months Foundation
Continuity PostNL should receive a demand for repayment
under the credit facilities referred to above, it may also require

PostNL’s external auditor, Ernst & Young Accountants LLP, is
appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The lead
partner rotates after a maximum period of five years and the
key audit partners rotate after a maximum period of seven
years. Ms S.D.J. Overbeek - Goeseije has been the lead audit
partner since 2017.

PostNL Driving transition | 13 Corporate governance

68

The Supervisory Board recommends to the General Meeting of
Shareholders the appointment or replacement of the external
auditor. In doing so, it considers the Audit Committee’s advice
regarding the external auditor’s nomination for
appointment/reappointment or dismissal. The Audit
Committee prepares the selection of the external auditor. The
Audit Committee reports annually to the Supervisory Board on
the functioning of, and relevant developments in the
relationship with the external auditor. The Audit Committee
gives due consideration to the Board of Management’s
observations in this respect. At the Annual General Meeting of
Shareholders in April 2019, we will propose to reappoint Ernst &
Young Accountants LLP as external auditor for PostNL for
another 2 years, that is for the financial years 2019 and 2020.
Ms S.D.J. Overbeek - Goeseije shall remain the lead audit
partner.
The Audit Committee, supported by the Internal Audit director,
is required to pre-approve all services the external auditor
provides to ensure these do not impair the auditor’s
independence from PostNL. The Audit Committee grants a
general pre-approval for certain routine services every year. By
Dutch law, the external auditor is in principle prohibited to
render non-audit services.

Internal audit
PostNL's internal audit function provides independent and
objective assurance to the Board of Management and the
Supervisory Board on the effectiveness of the internal control
framework, and performs financial, IT, management systems
and operational audits for the various units within the PostNL
Group. Audits are scheduled in close cooperation with the
business concerned and organised in such a way that the
external auditor can use the internal audit activities optimally.
Each audit is followed by a formal audit report to the
management responsible. Adequate follow-up on audit findings
is assured. A summary report of audit-related topics (findings,
follow-up, and so on) is issued every quarter to the Board of
Management and the Audit Committee. Audit planning, the
quality and professionalism of the audit team and the
effectiveness and efficiency of the execution of the audits are
supervised by the Board of Management and approved by the
Audit Committee. The internal audit function reports to the
CEO, with open communication to the CFO and the Audit
Committee.

Conflicts and potential conflicts of interest between the
external auditor and PostNL are settled in accordance with the
terms of reference of the Audit Committee and Dutch law. See
note 2.1.5 to the consolidated financial statements of PostNL
N.V. for the fees paid to Ernst & Young Accountants LLP and the
distribution of fees between audit and audit-related services.
The Audit Committee requires a formal written statement from
the external auditor confirming its independence.

PostNL Driving transition | 13 Corporate governance

69

14 Risk management
In this chapter we look at how we manage our risks. Additionally, we provide an
overview of the main risks to the strategic objectives and how we mitigate each of
those risks.

Risk management approach
This section provides an overview of our approach to risk
management, internal control, integrity and compliance. It
includes the disclosures required by the Code and chapter 5.1a
of the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act (Wet op het
financieel toezicht).
Our enterprise risk management framework has been designed
to identify and prioritise our main risks and develop appropriate
responses. This framework is in line with the Integrated
Framework of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission and the Code.
We have built a comprehensive portfolio of Group policies and
controls, ensuring discipline in our business processes. These
support the Board of Management in its statutory and fiduciary
obligations to stakeholders in developing and achieving its
strategic, operational, compliance and financial objectives.

The head office functions are responsible for ensuring that the
regulatory compliance objectives are achieved, and that
decision-making is facilitated and supported by transparent,
accurate and relevant information. The Board of Management
and the Supervisory Board monitor the effectiveness and
efficiency of the enterprise risk management, framework. They
are supported by the Internal Audit department.
Understanding strategic, operational, regulatory, and financial
risks, including risks relating to corporate responsibility, is a vital
element of our management decision-making process.
Management reviewed the risk profile regularly throughout
2018 and will continue to do so during 2019. Risks are identified
by means of both a bottom-up (line management) and
top-down (Board of Management and business segment
management) approach, covering the entire business. For
those risks deemed material, (the Board of) Management
develops and reviews comprehensive risk response plans.

Risk appetite
Risk appetite is the level of residual risk we deem acceptable to achieve our objectives. The risk appetite is set by the Board of
Management in close cooperation with the Executive Committee, based upon our strategic goals, our business principles, our
policies and procedures, and taking into consideration the highly-regulated markets we operate in. The risk appetite is discussed
with the Audit Committee. Overall, PostNL’s risk appetite in 2018 did not materially change compared to 2017. Our risk appetite
differs per risk type:

PostNL Driving transition | 14 Risk management

70

The risks described in this chapter cover the main risks to our
strategic objectives as described in chapter 5: Value creation
and strategy; and have been used as input for the stakeholder
materiality matrix as described in chapter 4: Our operating
context. Risk management and internal control is considered a
line responsibility. All business segments and head office
departments are engaged in this company-wide risk
management process, which includes:
Mandatory participation in risk management workshops by
relevant management team members
Assessing risks on impact, likelihood of occurrence and control
effort (the additional effort required to achieve further risk
mitigation)
●

●

Our risk management and control systems are designed to
reduce the likelihood of errors, incorrect decisions and
unforeseen circumstances as much as possible. It provides
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
However, no risk management or internal control system can
provide an absolute safeguard against failure to achieve
corporate objectives, fraud or breach of rules and regulations.
Risk mitigation as described below is meant to provide a
high-level overview of potential and initiated action items in
response to the risks identified and is not to be interpreted as a
comprehensive list of risk responses within PostNL. The risks
related to unforeseeable events are very difficult to quantify,
and while we organise comprehensive risk mitigation
techniques, we are not always able to anticipate the
consequences these types of events may have, if any, on our
financial performance and position.

Internal control over financial and nonfinancial reporting
In 2018, we continued to invest the resources required to
document and evaluate the design of internal controls over
financial and non-financial reporting. Also, we continued to test
the operational effectiveness of these internal controls. The
effectiveness of internal controls is tested by management.
Management is required to follow up on risks deemed to be
inadequately mitigated by internal controls, which might result
from, for example, a major organisational or IT change. This
requires additional actions, including performing and evaluating compensating controls and activities, to reduce the risks
of a misstatement in the financial and non-financial reporting.

Risk management and internal control reports are also
discussed with the Board of Management and the Audit
Committee of the Supervisory Board.

Integrity
We are committed to sound business conduct. We therefore
manage our business according to applicable laws and
regulations and according to the PostNL Business Principles,
which provide guidance on interaction with colleagues,
customers, business partners and society in general. A
company-wide integrity programme ensures that the Business
Principles are applied consistently throughout the organisation.
The Integrity Committee advises and assists the Board of
Management in developing, implementing and monitoring
Group policies and procedures aimed at enhancing integrity
and ethical behaviour and preventing fraud, corruption and
bribery. The Integrity Committee is composed of the director
audit & security, the manager integrity office, the corporate
security officer, the director group legal, the manager people
development, the director operations of Parcels and the
director transformation of Mail in the Netherlands.
The Integrity Committee oversees investigations based on
reports of possible breaches filed under the PostNL Business
Principles, the PostNL Group procedure on Whistleblowing and
the PostNL Group procedure on Fraud Prevention, Anti-Bribery
and Anti-Corruption.
PostNL recognises the need to have detailed fraud prevention
and anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies, procedures and
reporting mechanisms in place to protect our business integrity
and to comply with all applicable laws and regulations.
Anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation, both in our home
country and the countries we operate in, is very important for
PostNL to conduct its business globally. All reported incidents
of actual or suspected corruption or bribery will be promptly
and thoroughly investigated and dealt with appropriately.
The Integrity Committee advises on the guidelines for
disciplinary actions. It also advises the Board of Management
and line management on the mitigation of fraud risks and on
ethical, anti-bribery and anti-corruption matters. The Integrity
Committee reports regularly to the Board of Management and
every six months to the Supervisory Board. More information
on Integrity Committee and related activities can be found on
our website.

Performance of our internal control environment is regularly
measured and monitored, and the results are discussed in the
Internal Control Committee (ICC) meetings. The ICC is
composed of the CFO, the director audit & security, the director
group finance, and representatives of the risk management &
internal control, internal audit and the group finance
departments. The external auditor also attends the ICC
meetings. The ICC met four times in 2018.

The focus of our integrity approach is to regularly ensure our
employees are familiar with the PostNL Business Principles. Our
company-wide e-learning module on integrity is mandatory for
management and for office workers, and voluntary for
production staff. The module is part of our regular onboarding
programme. Our aim is to educate management and
employees about our Business Principles, and the desired
behaviour based on these principles. Additional to the

PostNL Driving transition | 14 Risk management

71

e-learning module, we regularly publish integrity related news
items and dilemma polls on our intranet.
In accordance with the requirements of the Corporate
Governance Code, we also performed an assessment
connected to the organizational awareness with our business
principles. The ‘employee engagement monitor 2018’
addressed employee’s familiarity with the PostNL Business
Principles, and their perception whether we work according to
the PostNL Business Principles. The main outcome of this
assessment in 2018 showed that 84% (2017: 81%) of the
responders is (partly) familiar with the PostNL Business
Principles.’ We use the outcome of the monitor as input for our
integrity approach and our activities at the PostNL Group
companies.
During the year we started 680 investigations in response to
integrity-related reports. These investigations covered issues
such as theft of mail or parcels, bribery and corruption, or
failure to follow workplace practices. As per the end of 2018,
620 (91%) of these investigations were closed. This led to 303
discontinued work relations. To the best of our knowledge, we
had no cases of bribery or corruption, which had significant
impact on our business.

Compliance
PostNL’s Group policies and procedures reflect and define the
view of the Board of Management and the way we conduct our
business.
Performance and compliance are monitored regularly in discussions between the appropriate line management and the
Board of Management via dedicated compliance reviews,
internal audits, through the monitoring duties of PostNL
committees and through the internal letter of representation.
For the purposes of issuing the letter of representation, all
managing directors and finance directors of PostNL’s Group
entities and company-level management reporting directly to
the Board of Management perform a self-assessment of their
responsibilities in the risk assessment process, effectiveness of
internal controls procedures and financial and non-financial
reporting process. The signed internal letters of representation
are the basis for the letter of representation that the Board of
Management signs off as part of the audit by the external
auditor.

Main risk related events that occurred in
2018
Some elements of the risks described in our 2017 Annual
Report occurred in 2018. We were mainly impacted by ongoing
and intensifying substitution and competition. The political
discussion regarding the postal market in the Netherlands (the
so-called postal dialogue) is developing favourably. No
unforeseen significant events, which were not included in our
risk profile 2017, occurred in 2018.

PostNL Driving transition | 14 Risk management

Within Parcels in the Benelux region, where competition is
already strong, we see competition intensifying from both
established logistics players and new (last-mile delivery)
entrants, attracted by growth in the e-commerce market. Our
largest competitors are investing heavily in their network
capacity. In addition, our largest customers achieve higher than
average growth leading to a change in market dynamics.
Performance in our Cross Border Solutions business did not
show the expected improvement in 2018, which was due to
fierce price competition, declining mail volume for Spring, and
the implementation of stricter rules on the transportation of
dangerous goods. We are continuously assessing the impact of
the Brexit decision on our UK cross-border business activities.
The announcement of a Chinese e-commerce platform to build
a new warehouse in Belgium demonstrates the increasing
competition in the region.
Ongoing digitalisation continues to result in substitution,
leading to a further decrease in mail volumes. The trend
amongst customers and consumers moving to digital
alternatives and the related decline of physical mail volumes
was in line with our expectations in 2018. Both competition and
substitution risks contain elements that are related to
disruptive trends, which may have an adverse effect on our
business.
PostNL welcomed the conclusions of the state secretary of
Economic Affairs and Climate Policy to the postal dialogue
which underlined that the current competitive situation on the
Dutch postal market is not sustainable. Adjustment of current
regulation, as announced, to the realities of the strongly
declining postal market is a precondition to safeguard the
accessibility and reliability of the postal service for everyone in
the Netherlands in the coming years. The outcome of the postal
dialogue was that consolidation of networks is the best way of
safeguarding an affordable and relevant postal service in the
Netherlands. Consolidation also allows for managing volume
decline in a social responsible manner. This notion was broadly
supported in Parliament. In 2018 important steps have been
taken towards short term consolidation in the Dutch postal
market.
In line with our strategy to be the postal and logistic solutions
provider in the Benelux, we have decided to divest Nexive and
Postcon and we hope to finalise this in 2019.
An overview of the most important regulatory developments in
2018 can be found in chapter 4, Our operating context. The
main risks in relation to regulatory developments in 2018 were:
On 12 April 2018 final agreements were reached regarding the
mail deliverer CLA applicable for the period from 1 October
2017 to 30 September 2019.
On 3 September 2018 the Trade and Industry Appeals
Tribunal (College van Beroep voor het Bedrijfsleven - CBB)
annulled the additional measures with regard to market
●

●

72

●

●

access and tariff obligations imposed on PostNL by the
Netherlands Authority for Consumers and Markets (ACM).
On 31 October 2018, the ACM announced the preparation of a
new market analysis, which may lead to an obligation for
PostNL to provide other postal carriers with access to their
own delivery network on the basis of cost-oriented tariffs.
On 24 December 2018, the ACM announced the draft
conclusions from their additional analysis that PostNL has a
dominant position in the 24-hour business mail market.
This may lead to the reinstatement of the measures imposed
earlier by the ACM.

Cyber-attacks and online fraud attempts become more
attractive for criminals and increase the likelihood of this risk
materialising. We are collaborating with governmental
institutions, businesses and research bodies to combat internet
crime. In 2018 a fake look-a-like of the MyPostNL app was
discovered, which was designed to access the user’s log-in
information for internet banking and was using the telephone’s
contact list to distribute itself further. Cutting-edge technology
in supporting retail activities is required in the increasingly
complex postal industry. We have experienced some issues in
relation to IT retail support in the course of the year which led
to short disruptions in the mail and parcel distribution schedule.
In 2018 several risks materialised related to the
implementation of our strategic change programme, resulting
in delays in IT implementation projects for new commercial and
back-office systems and processes. In addition, the volume of
change related to agile transformation of the IT function and
our digitalisation initiatives are increasing.

PostNL Driving transition | 14 Risk management

The risk of insufficient network capacity was mitigated in a
timely manner during our peak period in the last quarter of
2018. New distribution centre locations were opened before
the start of the seasonal peak. Furthermore, we hired additional
workforce to limit capacity issues. However, the tension with
the FNV trade union and the announced strikes during the
Christmas period were a growing concern for our network
capacity risk. On 13 December 2018 a court ruled in an interim
order that the FNV is not allowed to organise any actions at
PostNL during the Christmas season that could disrupt
operations. The judge allowed FNV to take action up to 15
minutes per day until 6 January 2019.
In 2018 we experienced scarcity in the labour market and
ability to retain qualified personnel. To increase PostNL’s
attractiveness as an employer we are investing in branding as
well as training and development of our staff. In addition, we
make use of innovative online recruitment techniques and are
continually improving the employee experience.
The key risks we face in executing our strategy and business
processes are described in the following tables. For each risk,
we determine the risk level based on impact and likelihood of
occurrence, using a three-point system classifying risks as
major, moderate or low. In addition, we have indicated for each
risk whether the risk trend is decreasing, increasing or remained
stable compared to 2017.

73

PostNL Driving transition | 14 Risk management

74

PostNL Driving transition | 14 Risk management

75

PostNL Driving transition | 14 Risk management

76

PostNL Driving transition | 14 Risk management

77

15 Remuneration report
The Remuneration Committee of the Supervisory Board is responsible for assessing
and preparing the remuneration policy for the members of the Board of Management.
The Supervisory Board assesses the proposals and submits, in the event of policy
changes, the proposed remuneration policy to the Annual General Meeting of
Shareholders for adoption.

Remuneration policy 2018
The remuneration policy is based on the remuneration policy as
adopted by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of
PostNL on 16 April 2013. The objective of the remuneration
policy is to retain, motivate and attract qualified members of
the Board of Management of the highest caliber essential for
the successful leadership and effective management of a large
company. The main principles of PostNL's remuneration policy
are:
sobriety
a base salary based on median market levels
moderate variable remuneration with focus on both shortterm and long-term objectives
long-term compensation supportive to the attainment of
PostNL's strategy
transparency
alignment with multi-stakeholder interests
responsible and risk-controlling
performance-related for reasonable variable remuneration
with payout in cash and in shares.

PostNL
Dutch peer group
2018
Aalberts Industries (AEX)

KPN (AEX)

Arcadis (AMX)

VolkerWessels (AMX)

BAM Group (AMX)

Royal Boskalis Westminster (AEX)

DSM (AEX)

Sligro (AMX)

Fugro (AMX)

TKH Group (AMX)

Grandvision (AMX)

Refresco (AMX) 1

IMCD (AMX)

Signify (AMX)

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

Review against peer group
To provide a consistent review of the level and structure of the
total remuneration, which is aligned with best market practice,
all remuneration components for the members of the Board of
Management are reviewed and benchmarked at least every
three years against a peer group. The Supervisory Board
regularly reviews the peer group to ensure a balanced
representation of the relevant labour market. The Supervisory
Board established a new peer group in consultation with and
after discussion in the Remuneration Committee. In line with
the previous (2015) peer group, the main criteria for the new
peer group are Dutch listing and comparability to PostNL in
terms of size. The new peer group consists of a mix of both AEX(4) and AMX-listed (10) companies.

PostNL Driving transition | 15 Remuneration report

1. Refresco was delisted in 2018

In 2018, all remuneration components were reviewed and
benchmarked against the new peer group. The outcome of the
benchmark assessment shows that the base salary for both
members of the Board of Management is positioned between
the 25th percentile and the median of the peer group. Total
direct compensation (base salary, target short-term incentive
and annualized value long-term incentive) for both members of
the Board of Management is positioned well below the 25th
percentile of the peer group. Consequently, the gap between
the remuneration policy and the way this is put in practice is
increasingly widening. In accordance with previous years, the
Remuneration Committee and Supervisory Board - taking note
of individual Board of Management members' views with
regard to the amount and structure of their own remuneration agreed to leave the Board of Management’s remuneration as is.
All comparisons are made on a euro basis. The remuneration
policy of the Board of Management is in conformity with
principle 3.1.2 of the Code.

Variable remuneration
The variable remuneration has the following characteristics:
the total variable remuneration potential is capped at 75% of
the annual base salary
a short-term incentive (STI) and long-term incentive (LTI)
plan, where the members of the Board of Management have
the opportunity to earn an incentive based on annual targets
(STI) and three-year targets (LTI). Both STI and LTI are
capped at 37.5% of the annual base salary.
●

●

78

Short-term incentive
The STI represents a potential reward of 37.5% of the annual
base salary, which is based on annual targets. A target can only
contribute to the STI payout if it is fully met, which means there
is no stretch and no threshold on the annual targets. The STI
plan provides a cash payment reflecting the realised
achievement of targets. The focus areas for the STI are in line
with the current remuneration policy and represent a
multi-stakeholder approach as shown in the following table.
PostNL
Short-term incentive targets

PostNL
Long-term incentive targets
2016-2018, in %
Underlying net cash income

33.3%

Cost savings

33.3%

New growth initiatives
Total long-term targets

33.3%
100.0%

PostNL discloses target ranges in general terms. The vesting
schemes and actual target outcomes are specific and thus
contain competition-sensitive information. These are therefore
not disclosed.

2018, in %
2018
Underlying cash operating income

30%

Adjusted net cash flow from operating and investing activities

30%

Total financial targets

60%
10%

Customers
Customer satisfaction

10%

Quality score

10%

Environment
CO2 reduction
Total non-financial targets

●

●

●

●

10%
40%

Long-term incentive
The LTI represents a potential reward of 37.5% of the annual
base salary. The LTI plan contains the following characteristics:
it is a conditional share plan based on three-year internal
targets
shares are conditionally allocated to the members of the
Board of Management. A conditional dividend equivalent is
added to the conditional shares equal to the dividend rights of
ordinary shares, if applicable
the conditional shares and their conditional dividend
equivalents will vest after a performance period of three years
vesting is subject to the achievement of long-term targets
supportive to the attainment of PostNL’s strategy
the vested shares will remain restricted for a period of two
years following the three-year performance period, which is in
accordance with the Code
if a member of the Board of Management leaves the company
due to circumstances involving fraud or gross misbehaviour,
any accrued rights on the long-term incentive plan will
become void
if a member of the Board of Management leaves the company
due to other reasons, a pro rata performance and time-based
vesting applies, unless decided otherwise by the Supervisory
Board.
●

The main features of the applicable career average pension
scheme are:
retirement age of 68 years
pensionable income capped at statutory maximum salary
(2018: €105,075), offset for state pension (2018: €14,297)
annual accrual rate for old age pension of 1.615%
benefits conditionally indexed during accrual
employee contribution amounts to 6% of pensionable base
structural annual allowance of 19% of the gross base salary
above the statutory maximum and a temporary allowance of
2% of the gross base salary above the statutory maximum
(decreasing by 1% per year over five years as from 2015) to
enable the Board of Management to arrange their own
pension provision for that part of the salary exceeding
€105,075. The temporary allowance does not apply for the
current CFO.
●

Employees
Employee engagement

Pensions

●

●

●

Other
Besides the elements of the remuneration package as
described above, the remuneration policy contains the
following (contractual) arrangements and provisions.

●

●

●

●

PostNL Driving transition | 15 Remuneration report

79

Severance payments
The contractual severance payments for the CEO can
be summarised as follows:
as a policy, a severance payment, other than one related to a
change of control, amounts to one-year of base salary
a severance payment in the event of a change of control is
equal to the sum of the last annual base salary and pension
contribution plus the average variable remuneration received
over the last three years, multiplied by two
a severance payment will not be awarded if the agreement is
terminated early at the initiative of CEO (except in the event
of a change of control), or in the event of seriously culpable or
negligent behaviour on the part of the CEO.
●

●

●

The contractual severance payments for the CFO can be
summarised as follows:
as a policy, a severance payment, amounts to one-year of
base salary
a severance payment will not be awarded if the agreement is
terminated early at the initiative of CFO, or in the event of
seriously culpable or negligent behaviour on the part of the
CFO.
●

●

The company does not grant loans, including mortgage loans,
or advance payments. Nor have guarantees been provided to
the members of the Board of Management.

The current CFO has entered into a service agreement for an
indefinite period of time. The service agreement ends either on
the date of retirement, by notice of either party or in case of no
re-appointment. Termination of the contractual arrangements
of the Board of Management requires a written notice period of
six months.
Members of the Board of Management are appointed for a
period of four years. On expiry of the four-year term, a member
of the Board of Management may be reappointed for a
successive term of four years. Details of each member's
appointment are set out below.
On 1 January 2013, the Dutch Management and Supervision
(Public and Private Companies) Act (Wet Bestuur en Toezicht)
came into force. With the introduction of this legislation, the
relationship between directors and listed public companies is
no longer governed by employment law. This legislation will be
applicable for any future members of the Board of
Management. Since the current CFO is appointed after 1
January 2013, his contractual arrangement is governed by
aforementioned legislation.
PostNL
Appointment details
2018
Herna
Verhagen

Pim
Berendsen

Employed since

June 1993

February
2015

Term of employment/service

Claw-back
The Supervisory Board has the power to partially or in whole
claim back the variable remuneration from a Board of
Management member if it is granted on the basis of incorrect
information on achieving the targets relating to the variable
remuneration component or on the circumstances the variable
remuneration component depended on.

Discretionary authority
In general, the Supervisory Board has the authority to adjust
the variable pay components of members of the Board of
Management upwards or downwards. Furthermore, the
Supervisory Board has the discretionary authority to decide on
one-off payments to members of the Board of Management in
special circumstances. If and when such a discretionary
adjustment is made, a transparent substantiation will be
provided to the shareholders, explaining the Supervisory
Board's motivation for making use of this discretionary
authority.
The Supervisory Board has the discretionary authority to adjust
the value of variable pay components originally awarded if the
outcome proves to be unfair as a result of exceptional
circumstances during the performance period.

Contractual arrangements
The CEO has entered into an employment contract for an
indefinite period of time. The employment contract ends either
on the date of retirement or by notice of either party.

PostNL Driving transition | 15 Remuneration report

Indefinite

Indefinite

Board member since

2011

2018

Year of (re)appointment

2019

2022

Four years

Four years

Term of appointment

CFO Jan Bos stepped down
Jan Bos stepped down as CFO of PostNL on 17 April 2018 and
acted as advisor to the Board of Management until 1 June 2018.
Mr. Bos' leave was settled in accordance with arrangements
made and disclosed in last year's remuneration chapter. For
further details, see note 5.1 to the consolidated financial
statements.

Actual remuneration in 2018
The table below summarises the 2018 remuneration elements
of the members of the Board of Management calculated in
accordance with IFRS and the remuneration policy for 2018. In
accordance with the Code, the individual Board of Management
members’ views with regard to the amount and structure of
their own remuneration have been taken into account by the
Remuneration Committee when drafting the proposal. Note
that IFRS amounts expensed for the period do not necessarily
represent the actual compensation payout. For detailed
disclosure on the remuneration of the members of the Board of
Management, see note 5.1 to the consolidated financial
statements.

80

PostNL
Remuneration Board of Management
2017-2018, in €
Herna Verhagen

Pim Berendsen

Former member - Jan Bos 3

625,000

333,819

197,917

Accrued for short-term incentive

93,750

50,073

29,687

Accrued for long-term incentive

265,803

82,127

86,259

Other periodic compensation 1

196,006

77,039

129,198

Fixed remuneration
Base salary
Variable remuneration

Pension costs

2

Total 2018
Total 2017

24,110

23,854

10,606

1,204,669

566,913

453,668

1,127,609

n/a

822,655

1. Other periodic compensation include company costs related to tax and social security, pension allowances, study costs, company car and other compensation. Also in
2018, Jan Bos received a jubilee payment (25 years in service) of one month’s gross salary.
2. Pension costs represent the service costs of the defined benefit scheme.
3. Jan Bos stepped down as CFO of PostNL on 17 April 2018 and acted as advisor to the Board of Management until 1 June 2018. As advisor to the Board of Management, no
changes were made to his contractual arrangements.

The following scorecard contains a summary of achievements
of the 2018 STI targets.

Internal pay ratios
The ratio between the annual total remuneration for the CEO1)
and the average annual total remuneration for an employee2)
was 24.6 : 1 for 2018. The table below shows the ratio
development over the last 5 years.

PostNL
Scorecard against target
2018
2018
Financial targets
Underlying cash operating income

√

Adjusted net cash flow from operating/investing activities

x

PostNL
Internal pay ratios
2014 - 2018

Non-financial targets

Internal
pay
ratio

Employees
Employee engagement

x

Customers
Customer satisfaction

x

Quality score 1

x

Environment
CO2 reduction

2015

2016

2017

2018

32.1

32.5

30.4

24.5

24.6

1)

Based on total remuneration costs of the CEO €1,204,669 as reported in this
chapter.
2)
Based on €1,002 million being the total salaries, pensions and social security
contributions, excluding the CEO €1,204,669 divided by the average number of FTEs
minus one (20,420) as reported in chapter 18: Financial Statements, note 2.1.3.

√

1. Target exceeds regulatory threshold

The Remuneration Committee assessed the achievements of
the members of the Board of Management over the three-year
LTI period 2016-2018 on the basis of the following targets:
underlying net cash income, cost savings and new growth
initiatives. Overall, an average score of 71% was achieved. The
applicable number of performance shares from 2016 will vest in
2019.
PostNL discloses targets in general terms. The vesting schemes
and actual target outcomes are specific and thus contain
competition-sensitive information. These are therefore not
disclosed.

PostNL Driving transition | 15 Remuneration report

2014

Remuneration policy 2019
In 2019, the following adjustments will apply for the career
average pension scheme:
pensionable income capped at increased statutory maximum
salary of €107,593
annual accrual rate for old age pension adjusted from 1.615%
to 1.652% at retirement age 68
temporary allowance of the gross base salary exceeding the
statutory maximum salary for the CEO decreased to 1%.
●

●

●

No further changes in the remuneration policy are expected for
2019.

81

Remuneration of members of the
Supervisory Board
The remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board
reflects the time spent and the responsibilities of their role. The
remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board
comprises base pay and a meeting fee linked to attendance of
the meetings of the committees of the Supervisory Board. The
members of the Supervisory Board receive no compensation
related to performance and/or equity and accrue no pension
rights with the company. The members of the Supervisory
Board receive no severance payments in the event of
termination. PostNL does not grant loans, including mortgage
loans, advance payments, guarantees and options or shares to
any member of the Supervisory Board.
PostNL
Remuneration of Supervisory Board
2018, in €
Annual base
fee
Chairman

55,000

Member

40,000
Meeting fee

Committees
Audit and remuneration
Nomination

Chairman

2,500

Member

1,500

Chairman

1,500

Member

1,000

For disclosure on the remuneration of individual members of
the Supervisory Board, see note 5.1 to the consolidated
financial statements.

PostNL Driving transition | 15 Remuneration report

82

16 Our tax policy and principles
In this chapter we provide an overview of our tax policy, its underlying principles, and
its application.

General
The Board of Management views tax (meaning all taxes that we
face in our businesses) as an important matter for PostNL and
its stakeholders. As such, a coherent, responsible and compliant
approach towards tax is considered an integral part of doing
business. Based on a group policy approved by the Board of
Management, the head-office department Group Tax is
mandated to oversee this approach towards tax. In that role,
Group Tax, inter alia, defines the tax strategy and related
policies for the PostNL Group, advises and supports the Board
of Management on tax, and acts as the central business partner
on tax towards all stakeholders whilst maintaining the following
principles and ensuring that they are adhered to.

Compliance
We strive to be compliant with the relevant tax laws and
regulations in countries where we conduct our business and are
guided by the relevant international standards (such as OECD
guidelines). We aim to comply with the letter as well as the
spirit of the laws mentioned. At the same time, we endeavor to
be compliant with the (tax) accounting laws and regulations in
countries where we do business.

Transparency
We view transparency as an integral part of sound tax
governance, and consider this as key in our approach towards
tax authorities. As to other stakeholders, we make our
disclosures in accordance with relevant reporting requirements
and standards (such as IFRS). In addition, we assess at least
annually our position on tax disclosures with respect to
transparency.

Relationship with tax authorities
We have built our relationship with the Dutch tax authorities on
the basis of horizontal monitoring. This means that this
relationship is based on mutual trust, understanding and
transparency. In such a relationship we pro-actively disclose
issues and the Dutch tax authorities deal with such issues in an
efficient and constructive way. We strive to build relationships
with tax authorities in other countries in a similar fashion,
where and when applicable and feasible.

PostNL Driving transition | 16 Our tax policy and principles

A multi-disciplinary approach towards
corporate and business projects and tax
matters
We take a multi-disciplinary stance when working on corporate
and business projects, tax planning and transfer pricing,
involving relevant representatives of the businesses as well as
representatives of our tax, treasury, legal and finance
departments. Oversight is carried out by the CFO.

Guiding principles on tax planning
Our tax planning requires opportunities in this area to have a
substantial level of robustness taking into account the principle
of business rationale. This means that aside from factors such
as financial impact, complexity and reputation, solid business
and/or commercial reasons have to exist. In addition, this
means that we do not use (i) contrived or abnormal structures
or (ii) secrecy jurisdictions or so-called tax havens for tax
avoidance. Considering these principles, we view our tax risk
appetite as moderate.

Governance and accountability
We have mechanisms in place to be able to adhere to these tax
principles. We acknowledge that a robust governance
framework is required to maintain control over tax matters and
related risks. As an important topic, also foreseen to remain
important for the coming years, Group Tax has increasing
attention for tax technology (data analytics and more
automated compliance and reporting in particular) to further
enhance its control framework.
Our tax control framework has been built and developed
accordingly. In this respect, a set of key controls on tax matters
have been defined, controlling certain inherent risks, which
periodically have been executed and whereby oversight is kept
and specific review procedures performed by the Internal Audit
department.
We operate a Group Tax department to ensure that tax matters
are dealt with according to the mandate given to it by the Board
of Management. Part of the mandate is a roles and
responsibilities matrix on the basis of which it is clear how these
roles and responsibilities are allocated over the different areas
within the PostNL Group. We report quarterly to the Board of
Management on adherence to the tax policy and underlying tax
principles.

83

Tax payments in more detail
Given the different activities we operate across our business segments, we pay a number of different types of tax. In addition to
corporate income tax, VAT & sales tax (borne and collected) and wage tax & social security contributions (borne and collected) are
the most material ones. In 2018, we paid € 511 million (2017: €566 million) in tax. A breakdown of these by type and region is
shown in the charts below. Our revenue breakdown is included for comparison. Note that due to the fact that Nexive and Postcon
are reported as held for sale, the breakdown by region below has changed compared to 2017.

We monitor (inter)national developments (including the OECD project on base erosion and profit shifting and country-by-country
reporting) to improve tax transparency. Complying with the legislation in the countries in which we operate our activities, we have
filed a country-by-country report in the Netherlands and our notifications in (most) of the other countries. During 2018, these
(inter)national developments were discussed on several occasions to assess whether our stance towards these developments
should be adjusted. In terms of the outcome of these discussions, we continue to strive for optimal tax transparency, which includes
taking the aforementioned developments, as well as competition considerations, into account.

PostNL Driving transition | 16 Our tax policy and principles

84

17 PostNL on the capital markets
In this chapter we provide information about our capital structure, the role of investor
relations, our dividend, our financial calendar for the year ahead and contact details.

Shares and share ownership
Ordinary shares in PostNL N.V. (ticker: PNL,
ISIN code 0009739416) are listed on Euronext Amsterdam and
included in the AMX index. Options on PostNL shares are traded
on Euronext Derivatives Amsterdam and on the European
Options Exchange in Amsterdam.
In 2018, 1,048 million PostNL shares were traded on Euronext
Amsterdam (2017: 923 million shares). The average daily
number of shares traded was 4.1 million (2017: 3.6 million). The
market capitalisation of PostNL was €937 million at the end of
2018 (2017: €1,849 million).

Major shareholders
Pursuant to the Financial Markets Supervision Act (Wet op het
financieel toezicht), shareholders must disclose percentage
holdings in the capital and/or voting rights in the company
when such holding reaches, exceeds or falls below 3%, 5%,
10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 75% and 95%.
Such disclosure must be made to the Dutch Financial Markets
Authority (AFM) without delay. Our substantial shareholders
are listed in the table below.
PostNL
Overview of substantial shareholders (>3%)
31 December 2018, in %
(Indirect)
Holding

Holding of
(indirect)
voting rights)

Date of notification

Company

18 December 2018

Capfi Delen Asset
Management

4.32%

4.32%

14 December 2018

BlackRock, Inc

3.08%

3.18%

26 September 2018

Edinburgh Partners

5.08%

4.90%

12 November 2015

J.H.H. de Mol

5.04%

5.04%

Shareholder base
The distribution of our shares between retail, 15% (2017: 9%)),
and institutional shareholderss, 85% (2017: 91%)), changed
compared to 2017. PostNL has a broad base of international
shareholders.

PostNL’s authorised share capital is divided into 1,500,000,000
shares of €0.08 each and consists of 750,000,000 ordinary
shares and 750,000,000 preference shares B. The number of
issued and outstanding ordinary shares was 469,199,776 on 31
December 2018 (2017: 453,530,195 shares). All shares in issue
are fully paid. In 2018, 15,165,535 shares were issued as stock
dividend (2017: 9,920,567) and 504,046 for the share plan for
employees (2017: 804,549). No preference shares B were
issued and outstanding. For more information on PostNL’s
equity, see note 4.5 to the consolidated financial statements.

PostNL Driving transition | 17 PostNL on the capital markets

85

Bonds and credit rating
In August 2018, PostNL redeemed the bond with an
outstanding amount of £177 million and a coupon of 7.5%.
PostNL currently has one Eurobond outstanding, listed on
Euronext Amsterdam:
●

PNL 1.0% 2024 (ISIN XS1709433509), nominal value
outstanding €400 million

We are committed to a leverage ratio (adjusted net
debt/EBITDA) not exceeding 2.0. Currently, PostNL is rated by
Standard & Poor’s (S&P). The most recent credit rating is as
follows:
PostNL
Credit ratings
2018
S&P

Long-term rating

Outlook

BBB+

Negative

Investor relations
PostNL endeavours to stay in regular contact with our
shareholders. The main goal of our investor relations’ activities
is to build our financial brand. To achieve that, we strive to
inform the financial community about relevant developments
in our company in a transparent and timely way. The Board of
Management and the investor relations team maintain an
active dialogue with the financial community, and we comply
with applicable laws and rules and regulations of Euronext
Amsterdam and the AFM.

Explanation by the Board of Management of quarterly results is
given either at Group meetings and/or conference calls which
are accessible by phone and via the website (audiocast).
Additionally, General Meetings of Shareholders are broadcast
via audiocast. Our website provides all relevant information
with regard to publication dates and procedures to attend or
listen in to presentations.
Contact between the Board of Management, the financial
community and the press is carefully handled and structured.
The company will not compromise the independence of
analysts in relation to the company and vice versa. Analysts’
reports and valuations are not assessed, commented upon or
corrected, other than factually, by the company. PostNL does
not pay any fees to parties for carrying out research for
analysts’ reports or for the production or publication of
analysts’ reports, with the exception of credit rating agencies.
Contact with our financial stakeholders is taken care of by the
members of the Board of Management and PostNL’s investor
relations’ professionals.
The Board of Management has adopted investor relations and
media guidelines that PostNL employees abide by.
For the latest and archived press releases, presentations, share
price information and other company information, such as our
online Annual Review 2018 and interim reports, please visit
PostNL’s website.

Dividend

Our investor relations’ programme consists of meetings with
analysts and investors, conference calls, roadshows, investor
conferences and workshops. In addition, PostNL communicates
with the financial community through press releases, the
publication of the Annual Report, General Meetings of
Shareholders and the company’s website. In 2018, PostNL
visited investors in major financial cities in Europe and North
America. We meet with investors regularly to ensure the
investment community receives a balanced and complete view
of the company’s strategy, performance and the issues faced
by the business, and to listen to their feedback, while always
observing applicable rules concerning selective disclosure,
equal treatment of (potential) shareholders and insider trading.
In the period preceding the publication of quarterly results,
PostNL will be in a ‘closed period’.

In accordance with our dividend policy, we aim to pay a
progressive dividend which develops substantially in line with
the development of our operational performance. The
condition for paying out dividend is a leverage ratio (adjusted
net debt/EBITDA) not exceeding ~2. We target a dividend
pay-out ratio of around 75% of the underlying net cash income.
This pay-out ratio reflects a healthy balance of dividing the free
cash flow between investing in growth and allowing our
shareholders to benefit from our business performance.
Shareholders are offered the choice to opt for cash or for
shares.

PostNL Driving transition | 17 PostNL on the capital markets

86

We propose to increase the dividend to €0.24 per ordinary
share for 2018 (2017: €0.23). This will be proposed to the
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 16 April
2019. The final dividend would then amount to €0.17 per
ordinary share, taking into account an interim dividend of €0.07
per ordinary share that was paid in August 2018. The dividend
will be paid, at the shareholder’s election, either in ordinary
PostNL shares or in cash, which remains the default option. The
dividend in shares will be paid out of additional paid in capital as
part of the distributable reserves, free of withholding tax in the
Netherlands. If the dividend proposal is adopted, the
ex-dividend date is 18 April 2019.

Important dates in 2019
PostNL
Financial calendar
2019
25 February

Results fourth quarter and full year 2018

16 April

Annual General Meeting of Shareholders

7 May

Results first quarter 2019

5 August

Results second quarter and half year 2019

4 November

Results third quarter 2019

PostNL
Dividend calendar
2019
18 April

Ex-dividend date

24 April - 8 May (3.00 PM CET)

Election period final dividend 2018

10 May

Payment final dividend 2018

7 August

Ex-dividend date

9 - 23 August (3.00 PM CET)

Election period interim dividend 2019

27 August

Payment interim dividend 2019

Contact details
Visiting address:
Prinses Beatrixlaan 23
2595 AK The Hague
The Netherlands

Mailing address:
PostNL Investor Relations
PO 30250
2500 GG The Hague
The Netherlands
Telephone: +31 88 868 61 61
E-mail: ir@postnl.nl
Website: postnl.nl/en

PostNL Driving transition | 17 PostNL on the capital markets

87

Performance statements

PostNL Driving transition | Performance statements

88

PostNL Driving transition | Performance statements

89

PostNL Driving transition | Performance statements

90

18 Financial statements
Consolidated primary statements
PostNL
Consolidated income statement
2017-2018, in € millions
Year ended at 31 December
Revenue from contracts with customers

Notes

2017
represented

2018

2.1.1

2,709

2,758

Other operating revenue
Total operating revenue
Other income
Cost of materials

16

14

2,725

2,772

24

21

(56)

(63)

Work contracted out and other external expenses

2.1.2

(1,222)

(1,308)

Salaries, pensions and social security contributions

2.1.3

(1,001)

(1,003)

Depreciation, amortisation and impairments

2.1.4

(70)

(83)

Other operating expenses

2.1.5

(116)

(151)

(2,465)

(2,608)

284

185

Total operating expenses

Operating income
Interest and similar income
Interest and similar expenses

4

3

(46)

(27)
(24)

Net financial income/(expense)

2.2

(42)

Results from investments in jv's/associates

3.6

(10)

0

232

161

Profit/(loss) before income taxes
Income taxes

2.2

Profit/(loss) from continuing operations
Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations

3.8

Profit for the year

(53)

(34)

179

127

(31)

(94)

148

33

Attributable to:
Non-controlling interests
Equity holders of the parent

0

0

148

33
7.1

Earnings per ordinary share (in € cents) 1

2.2

33.0

Earnings per diluted ordinary share (in € cents) 2

2.2

33.0

7.1

39.9

27.5

Earnings from continuing operations per ordinary share (in € cents) 1
Earnings from continuing operations per diluted ordinary share (in € cents) 2

39.9

27.4

Earnings from discontinued operations per ordinary share (in € cents) 1

(6.9)

(20.4)

Earnings from discontinued operations per diluted ordinary share (in € cents) 2

(6.9)

(20.3)

1. Earnings per ordinary share are in 2018 based on an average of 462,015,866 outstanding ordinary shares (2017: 448,645,255).
2. Earnings per diluted ordinary share are in 2018 based on an average of 463,179,101 ordinary shares on a fully diluted basis in the year (2017: 449,124,010).

The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

91

PostNL
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
2017-2018, in € millions
Year ended at 31 December

Notes

Profit for the year

2017
represented

2018

148

33

Actuarial gains/(losses) pensions, net of tax

3.4

13

32

Pension asset ceiling/minimum funding requirement, net of tax

3.4

(10)

(2)
(3)

Impact tax rate change related to OCI pensions
Change in value of financial assets at fair value through OCI

11

4.2

Other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to the income statement
Currency translation adjustment, net of tax

3

38

(3)

0

3

1

Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to the income statement

0

1

Total other comprehensive income for the year

3

39

151

72

Gains/(losses) on cashflow hedges, net of tax

Total comprehensive income for the year
Attributable to:
Non-controlling interests
Equity holders of the parent

The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

92

0

0

151

72

PostNL
Consolidated statement of cash flows
2017-2018, in € millions
Year ended at 31 December

Notes

Profit/(loss) before income taxes

2017
represented

2018

232

161

70

83

Adjustments for:
Depreciation, amortisation and impairments

2

3

(22)

(19)

Interest and similar income

(4)

(3)

Interest and similar expenses

46

27

Results from investments in jv's/associates

10

0

Investment income

30

5

Pension liabilities

(55)

(22)

Other provisions

(24)

(14)

Changes in provisions

(79)

(36)

Share-based payments
(Profit)/loss on disposal of assets

Inventory
Trade accounts receivable
Other accounts receivable
Other current assets
Trade accounts payable

(1)

0

(22)

(40)

2

15

(25)

2

24

(24)

(17)

(75)

Changes in working capital

(39)

(122)

Cash generated from operations

216

94

Interest paid

(39)

(26)

Income taxes paid

(55)

(39)

122

29

Interest received

4

3

Dividend received

0

0

Other current liabilities excluding short-term financing and taxes

Net cash (used in)/from operating activities

2.3.1

Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash)

(33)

Disposal of subsidiaries

1
(2)

Investments in jv's/associates
Capital expenditure on intangible assets

(35)

(40)

Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment

(66)

(55)

Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment

32

46

Changes in other loans receivable

(6)

1

Other changes in (financial) fixed assets

(8)

(1)

(111)

(48)

Dividends paid

(40)

(63)

Proceeds from long-term borrowings

398

3

Repayments of long-term borrowings

(2)

0

(328)

(223)

Net cash (used in)/from investing activities

2.3.2

Repayments of short-term borrowings

(1)

(2)

27

(285)

Total change in cash from continuing operations

38

(304)

Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year

640

Repayments of finance leases

Net cash (used in)/from financing activities

2.3.3

645
(72)

Cash transfers to discontinued operations
Total change in cash from continuing operations

38

(304)

Total change in cash from discontinued operations

(33)

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year

645

269

(33)

(52)

Total change in cash from discontinued operations

3.8

The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

93

PostNL
Consolidated statement of financial position
2017-2018, in € millions
Notes
Assets
Goodwill
Other intangible assets

At 31
December
2017

At 31
December
2018

141

97

116

115

257

212

Land and buildings

318

322

Plant and equipment

154

155

Other

21

12

Construction in progress

17

5

3.2

510

494

Investments in joint ventures/associates

3.6

9

3

Other loans receivable

4.1

7

6

Deferred tax assets

3.7

29

66

Financial assets at fair value through OCI

4.2

Intangible fixed assets

3.3

Property, plant and equipment

Financial fixed assets

Total non-current assets
Inventory

5

17

50

92

817

798

6

5

Trade accounts receivable

3.1.1

386

313

Accounts receivable

3.1.1

50

12

Income tax receivable
Prepayments and accrued income
Cash and cash equivalents

4.1

Total current assets
Assets classified as held for sale

3.8

Total assets
Equity and liabilities
Equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent
Non-controlling interests

9

2

157

99

645

269

1,253

700

10

200

2,080

1,698

34

46

3

3

37

49

Total equity

2.4

Deferred tax liabilities

3.7

43

31

Provisions for pension liabilities

3.4

359

296

Other provisions

3.5

23

19

Long-term debt

4.1

400

420

Accrued liabilities

Total non-current liabilities

2

4

827

770

220

146

Other provisions

3.5

40

21

Short-term debt

4.1

225

4

3.1.2

150

126

4

3

Contract liabilities

3.1.3

93

80

Accrued current liabilities

3.1.4

484

378

1,216

758

2,080

1,698

Trade accounts payable

Other current liabilities
Income tax payable

Total current liabilities
Liabilities related to assets classified as held for sale

Total equity and liabilities

The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

121

3.8

94

PostNL
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
2017-2018, in € millions

Balance at
31 Dec 2016

Issued share
capital

Additional
paid-in capital

Currency
translation
reserve

Hedge
reserve

Financial
assets at fair
value OCI

Other
reserves

Retained
earnings

Attributable
to equity
holders of the
parent

Noncontrolling
interests

Total equity

36

157

3

(4)

0

(561)

290

(79)

3

(76)

(3)

3

3

148

151

0

151

633

Total
comprehensive
income
Appropriation
of net income

(633)

0

0

Final dividend
previous year

(25)

(25)

(25)

Interim
dividend
current year

(15)

(15)

(15)

2

2

Share-based
compensation

Balance at
31 Dec 2017

3

36

160

(1)

0

Total
comprehensive
income

(1)

0

74

(235)

34

3

37

1

11

27

33

72

0

72

(48)

48

0

0

Appropriation
of net income
Final dividend
previous year

1

(1)

(47)

(47)

(47)

Interim
dividend
current year

1

(1)

(16)

(16)

(16)

3

3

Share-based
compensation

Balance at
31 Dec 2018

2

38

160

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

1

0

0

11

95

54

(217)

46

3

49

Section 1: Basis of preparation
This section sets out the Group’s accounting principles that relate to the consolidated financial statements as a whole. At the
beginning of each section, we give an overview of the items explained in that section. Where an accounting policy is specific
to one note, the policy is described in the section’s note to which it relates.
This section further describes the critical accounting estimates and judgements, or areas where assumptions and estimates
are significant to the consolidated financial statements, such as post-employment benefits and restructuring.
This section also explains the changes in accounting policies and disclosures, resulting from new and amended accounting
standards and interpretations, whether they are effective in 2018 or later years, and their impact.

1.1 General information
PostNL N.V. is a public limited liability company with its registered seat and head office in The Hague, the Netherlands. PostNL
provides businesses and consumers in the Benelux, Germany and Italy with an extensive range of services for their mail and parcels
needs. Through our international sales network Spring, we connect local businesses around the world to consumers globally.
PostNL’s services involve collecting, sorting, transporting and delivering letters and parcels for the company’s customers within
specific timeframes. The company also provides services in the area of data and document management, direct marketing and
fulfilment.
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of PostNL N.V. and its consolidated subsidiaries (hereafter
referred to as ‘PostNL’, ‘Group’ or ‘the company’).
The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by PostNL’s Board of Management and Supervisory Board on 25
February 2019 and are subject to adoption at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 16 April 2019.

1.2 Accounting principles applied
The consolidated financial statements of PostNL:
have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union
(EU), including International Accounting Standards (IAS) and related interpretations of the IFRS Interpretations Committee
(IFRICs), and Dutch law,
have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for financial instruments, and
have been prepared assuming a going concern.
●

●

●

The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are included at the
relevant notes to the consolidated financial statements or, in case of more general policies, in note 5.4 to the consolidated financial
statements. These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless stated otherwise. All amounts included
in the consolidated financial statements are presented in euros, unless stated otherwise.

Classification of Nexive and Postcon as discontinued operations
In line with PostNL’s strategy to become the logistics and postal solutions provider in the Benelux, PostNL has decided to divest
Nexive and Postcon. On 3 August 2018, the classification criteria of IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued
Operations were met. Accordingly, as of Q3 2018, Nexive and Postcon are reported as ‘held for sale’ and the results and cash flows
are reported as ‘discontinued operations’. The comparative figures of 2017 of both the income and cash flow statement have been
represented for the change to ‘discontinued operations’. For further details, see note 3.8 Assets classified as held for sale.

Change in segment reporting
The business lines Nexive, Postcon and Spring were previously reported in the segment International. The decision to divest Nexive
and Postcon and classification of these business lines as discontinued operations triggered a change in segment reporting. As of
2018, PostNL reports two operating segments Parcels (including Spring) and Mail in the Netherlands, and one other segment
PostNL Other.

Going concern
Based on the cash flow-generating capability of the company, the current finance structure and the company’s ability to realise its
assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business, PostNL’s financial statements have been prepared assuming a

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

96

going concern. During 2018, consolidated equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent improved by €12 million to €46
million. Corporate equity decreased by €137 million to €2,593 million. As at 31 December 2018, the balance of cash and cash
equivalents amounted to €269 million and the company has an undrawn multi-currency revolving credit facility of €400 million. Its
financing arrangements do not include financial covenants. Bond repayments are not due until 2024. Although the company
remains vulnerable to interest rate changes in relation to its pension obligations, it can also benefit from an environment of
increasing interest rates.

1.3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of PostNL's consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities. It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying PostNL’s
accounting policies.
Estimates, assumptions and judgements are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future
events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The resulting accounting positions will, by definition, seldom
equal the related actual results. On a continuous basis, we evaluate our expectations with the actual results, and include the
learnings going forward.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the
consolidated financial statements, are disclosed below.

Post-employment benefits
Post-employment benefit accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of future benefit costs over the employee’s approximate
service period, based on the terms of the plans and the investment and funding decisions made. The accounting requires the
company to make assumptions regarding variables such as the discount rate, the rate of benefit increases and future mortality
rates. Changes in these key assumptions can have a significant impact on the defined benefit obligations, funding requirements
and pension costs incurred. For details of the current funded status and a sensitivity analysis with respect to defined benefit plan
assumptions, see note 3.4 to the consolidated financial statements.

Restructuring
Restructuring charges mainly result from restructuring of our operations and overhead as a response to declining volumes in Mail in
the Netherlands. The scope and measurement of PostNL's related restructuring provision depends highly on the projected cash
outflows over the future years, which are mainly driven by the estimated number of staff that will either be made redundant or
apply for a mobility arrangement. For details on the current restructuring provision, see note 3.5 to the consolidated financial
statements.

Impairment of assets
In determining impairments of intangible assets including goodwill, tangible fixed assets and financial fixed assets, management
must make significant judgements and estimates to determine whether the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value. The
recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. In assessing the value in use, the estimated
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the
time value of money and the asset-specific risks. Determining cash flows requires the use of judgements and estimates that have
been included in PostNL’s strategic plans and long-term forecasts. The data necessary for the execution of the impairment tests are
based on management estimates of future cash flows, which make it necessary to estimate revenue growth rates and profit
margins. For details on the impairment test of goodwill, see note 3.3 to the consolidated financial statements.

Deferred revenue and revenue related accruals
PostNL has to estimate the deferred revenues from stamps sold but not yet used by its customers. The company uses a seasonal
model based on historical figures in order to account for the seasonal effects on sales from stamps (for example, stamp sales for
Christmas greetings in November and December). Additionally, the company handles large quantities of international mail and
parcel volumes to and from foreign postal operators. Although the net outstanding accrual positions reflect our best estimate, given
the assumptions involved, final settlements might deviate from the outstanding positions. For details on the current positions, see
note 3.1 to the consolidated financial statements.

Income taxes and deferred tax assets
The company is subject to income taxes in a number of jurisdictions. Significant judgement is required in determining the provision
and liability for income taxes. PostNL recognises liabilities for potential tax issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes
will be due, based on its best interpretation of the relevant tax laws and rules. PostNL recognises deferred tax assets to the extent

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

97

that it is probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. This is based on estimates of taxable
income by jurisdiction in which the company operates and the period over which deferred tax assets are recoverable. For details on
income taxes and deferred tax assets, see notes 2.2 and 3.7 to the consolidated financial statements.

Assets classified as held for sale
For assets classified as held for sale, including liabilities related to these assets, management needs to determine the fair value less
costs to sell. In assessing this value, management needs to make significant judgements and estimates, influenced by the
asset-specific characteristics, market appetite, the envisaged structuring of the sales transaction, and received proposals. For
details on the assets classified as held for sale, see note 3.8 to the consolidated financial statements.

Contingent liabilities
Legal proceedings covering a range of matters are pending against the company in various jurisdictions. The cases and claims often
raise difficult and complex factual and legal issues that are subject to many uncertainties and complexities, including but not limited
to the facts and circumstances of each particular case and claim, the jurisdiction and the differences in applicable law. PostNL
consults with legal counsel and certain other experts on matters related to litigation. PostNL recognises a liability when it is
determined that an adverse outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. For details on
commitments and contingencies, see note 3.9 to the consolidated financial statements.

1.4 Changes in accounting policies and disclosures
The following table provides a brief description of recent issued International Financial Reporting Standards, amendments and/or
interpretations, that could have a material impact on our financial statements.

Changes in accounting policies
Description

Date of adoption

Effect on the financial statements

Standards that are adopted
IFRS 9 ‘Financial
instruments’

IFRS 9 addresses the classification,
measurement and recognition of financial
assets and financial liabilities.

1 January 2018

There has not been a material impact
from the adoption of this standard,
see below.

IFRS 15 ‘Revenue
from contracts with
customers’

IFRS 15 specifies how and when revenue
should be recognised and requires to provide
users of financial statements with more
informative disclosures.

1 January 2018

There has not been a material impact
from the adoption of this standard,
see below and note 2.1.1 to the
consolidated statements.

1 January 2019

The standard will mainly effect the
accounting of the Group’s operating
leases.

Standards that are not yet adopted
IFRS 16 ‘Leases’

IFRS 16 establishes the principles that
entities would apply to report useful
information to investors and analysts about
the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash
flows arising from a lease. To meet that
objective, a lessee should recognise assets
and liabilities arising from a lease.

IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’
PostNL has performed the business model assessment and solely payment of principal and interest test for all financial instruments
and classified those in the appropriate IFRS 9 business model categories. The impact of the adoption of IFRS 9 is as follows:
●

●

●

On hedge accounting, the company determined that all existing hedge relationships previously designated as effective hedge
relationships will continue to qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS 9.
On impairment, IFRS 9 requires the company to record expected credit losses on all of its debt securities, loans and trade
receivables, either on a 12-month or lifetime basis. The company applies the simplified approach and records lifetime expected
losses on all trade receivables. The impact of adoption was limited to €0.2 million net of tax and has been recorded in 2018’s
opening equity.
On classification, the equity shares in non-listed companies that were previously held as available-for-sale with gains and losses
recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI) are under IFRS 9 classified as financial assets at fair value through OCI. The other
financial assets, mainly loans receivable and trade accounts receivable, are under IFRS 9 measured at amortised cost.

The company has aligned its policies to reflect the changes resulting from IFRS 9. Comparative information of 2017 has not been
restated.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

98

IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’
The company’s business involves the logistical service of delivering mail, parcels and other consignments. Nearly all of the
company’s revenues are represented by a single performance obligation being ‘logistic services’. Adoption of IFRS 15 does not
impact the company’s revenue and profit or loss resulting from these services. Revenue will remain being recognised at a point in
time when control is transferred to the customer, generally on delivery of the mail, parcels or other consignments.
Other performance obligations within the company’s business comprise the rental of post-boxes (revenue recognition over time),
print services (revenue recognition at a point in time) and stamp collection services (revenue recognition at a point in time).
Adoption of IFRS 15 also does not impact the company’s revenue and profit or loss resulting from these services.
Where contracts entitle customers to a volume discount, the variable consideration is estimated at contract inception and
constrained until it is highly probable that a significant revenue reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not
occur when the associated uncertainty with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved.
The company adopted the new standard using the modified retrospective method.

IFRS 16 'Leases'
The standard will impact the accounting of the Group’s operating leases, mainly related to rent and lease of buildings and transport
fleet. At year-end 2018, the Group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments related to continuing operations of €133
million (refer to note 3.9). The related impact on the balance sheet per 1 January 2019 is an increase in lease assets and liabilities
of €132 million. The impact on operating income and net profit is expected to be non-material, although straight line lease
expenses will be replaced by depreciation and interest expenses (with a related increase of €46 million and €1 million respectively).
The cash flow statement will show a shift from net cash from operating activities to net cash used in financing activities. The assets
classified as held for sale and liabilities related to these assets will increase by €36 million per 1 January 2019.
The Group plans to adopt this standard using the modified retrospective method, with the lease assets set equal to the lease
liabilities.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

99

Section 2: Result for the year
This section sets out the Group’s results and performance over 2018, from a profit, cash flow and equity perspective. It
concludes with the performance of our reportable segments.
We analyse the Group’s profit for the year in two separate steps. First we focus on our operating income by reference to the
activities performed by the Group and an analysis of our key operating costs. Thereafter we focus on the net profit and
earnings per share by exploring the financial results –which mainly consists of interest expenses– and the income tax charge.
Next, we analyse this year’s cash flow performance of the Group. The cash flow-generating capability of the Group is
essential for the continuity of our company. We explain the difference in accounting for income and expenses from actual
cash in and cash out flows. In our analysis, we separate the cash flow performance of our operating, investing and financing
activities.
Thirdly, we disclose the material developments underlying the equity performance of the year. Together with the net profit
for the year, equity is mainly impacted by developments in our pension liabilities and our financial instruments at fair value
through OCI.
This section concludes with segmental information of our performance. We disclose the contribution of our reportable
segments to total operating revenue and operating income. Furthermore, we report on our non-recurring and exceptional
items during the year.

2.1 Operating income
2.1.1 Total operating revenue
Accounting policies
Revenue recognition
PostNL's revenue from contracts with customers consist of the provision of postal and logistics services. Revenue from
contracts with customers is recognised when control of the goods or services are transferred to the customer at an amount
that reflects the consideration to which PostNL expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Revenue is the
gross inflow of economic benefits during the current year that arise from ordinary activities and result in an increase in
equity, other than increases relating to contributions from equity participants.
Variable consideration/volume discounts
If the consideration in a contract includes a variable amount, PostNL estimates the amount of consideration to which it will be
entitled in exchange for transferring the goods to the customer. The variable consideration is estimated at contract inception
and constrained until it is highly probable that a significant revenue reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised
will not occur when the associated uncertainty with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. PostNL
provides volume discounts to certain customers once the quantity of products purchased during the period exceeds a
threshold specified in the contract. Discounts are offset against amounts invoiced to the customer. To estimate the variable
consideration for the expected future discounts, PostNL applies the expected value method. The variable consideration can
be reasonably accurately determined from achieved volumes and contract agreements.
Contract liabilities
A contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods or services to a customer for which PostNL has received consideration
(or an amount of consideration is due) from the customer. If a customer pays consideration before PostNL transfers goods or
services to the customer, a contract liability is recognised when the payment is made or the payment is due (whichever is
earlier). Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue when PostNL performs under the contract and relate to amongst others
deferred revenue from unused stamps, deferred revenue from franking machines and the rental of mailboxes. See note 3.1.3
to the consolidated financial statements.
Revenue from contracts with customers
Revenue from contracts with customers represent revenue from the delivery of goods and services to third parties less

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

100

discounts, credit notes and taxes levied on sales. Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for the discounts.
Other operating revenue
Other operating revenue relates to the sale of goods and rendering of services not related to PostNL’s ordinary postal and
logistics services and mainly include rental income of temporarily leased-out property and custom clearance income.

The company’s business involves the logistical service of delivering mail, parcels and other consignments. Nearly all of the
company’s revenues are represented by a single performance obligation being ‘logistic services’. Revenue is being recognised at a
point in time when control is transferred to the customer, generally on delivery of the mail, parcels or other consignments. Other
performance obligations within the company’s business comprise the rental of post-boxes (revenue recognition over time), print
services (revenue recognition at a point in time) and stamp collection services (revenue recognition at a point in time).
The following table presents PostNL's revenue from contracts with customers relating to the reported operating segments.
PostNL
Revenue from contracts with customers
2017-2018, in € millions
2017
represented

2018

Parcels

1,374

1,547

Mail in the Netherlands

1,775

1,672

Year ended at 31 December

PostNL Other
Eliminations

Total

76

74

(516)

(535)

2,709

2,758

The comparative figures have been represented for adjusted segment reporting and the impact of the discontinued operations in
Italy and Germany. Volume and revenue growth within Parcels was partly offset by decreased revenue within Mail in the
Netherlands, mainly resulting from the continued volume decline in addressed and unaddressed mail.
The following table presents the geographical segmentation of revenue from contracts with customers. The basis of allocation
of revenue by geographical area is the country or region in which the entity recording the sales is located.
PostNL
Geographical segmentation
2017-2018, in € millions
Year ended at 31 December
The Netherlands
Rest of Europe
Europe
Rest of the World

Total

2017
represented

2018

2,431

2,483

141

148

2,572

2,631

137

127

2,709

2,758

2.1.2 Work contracted out and other external expenses
Accounting policies
Operating expenses related to ordinary activities are recognised on an accrual basis. In case it is not possible to directly relate
the operating expenses to a particular income earned or expected future income, these expenses are recognised in the
period incurred.
Operating leases
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the income
statement as incurred during the period of the lease.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

101

PostNL
Work contracted out and other external expenses
2017-2018, in € millions
2017
represented

2018

Parcels

553

655

Mail in the Netherlands

429

383

Year ended at 31 December

PostNL Other
Work contracted out
Rent & lease expenses
External temporary staff

Total

25

33

1,007

1,071

66

67

149

170

1,222

1,308

Costs of work contracted out and other external expenses increased by €86 million in 2018 mainly due to increased volumes and
service expansion within Parcels.

2.1.3 Salaries, pensions and social security contributions
PostNL
Salaries, pensions and social security contributions
2017-2018, in € millions
2017
represented

2018

Salaries

758

756

Social security charges

119

115

877

871

96

114

Year ended at 31 December

Salaries and social security charges
Defined benefit plans
Past service costs/settlements

(11)
11

12

Pension charges

96

126

Net addition to restructuring provisions

26

3

Defined contribution plans

Share-based payments

Total

2

3

1,001

1,003

In 2018, pension charges increased by €30 million, resulting from higher regular defined benefit charges and lower contribution
from past service costs. More detailed information on pensions is included in note 3.4. For the net additions to restructuring
provisions reference is made to note 3.5 Other provisions.
PostNL
Labour force
2017-2018, as indicated
2017
represented
Headcount
Parcels
Mail in the Netherlands
PostNL Other

Total at year end
External agency staff at year end
Full-time equivalents (FTEs)
Parcels
Mail in the Netherlands
PostNL Other

Total year average

2018

4,619

5,722

33,305

30,753

1,041

1,310

38,965

37,785

7,477

7,309

3,953

4,664

15,810

14,547

1,028

1,210

20,791

20,421

Including temporary personnel on our payroll; the external agency staff are additional.

The total headcount of PostNL decreased by 1,180 employees, which mainly relates to the reduction within Mail in the Netherlands
due to the impact of volume decline and cost savings initiatives, partly offset by an increase within Parcels due to growth in parcel
volumes. The labour force is also measured in FTEs based on the hours worked divided by the local standard. In 2018, the average
number of FTEs decreased by 370 FTEs compared to 2017. The average number of employees working in the Netherlands
was 19,827 FTEs (2017: 20,220) and outside the Netherlands was 594 FTEs (2017: 571).

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

102

2.1.4 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments
PostNL
Depreciation, amortisation and impairments
2017-2018, in € millions
2017
represented

2018

Amortisation of intangible assets

17

25

Depreciation property, plant and equipment

53

53

Impairment of property, plant and equipment

0

5

70

83

Year ended at 31 December

Total

In 2018, amortisation of intangible assets related to software for €22 million (2017: €15 million) and other intangibles for €3 million
(2017: €2 million). The increase in amortisation of software relate to increased investments in IT projects. The impairment of
property, plant and equipment of €5 million, recorded within Mail in the Netherlands, mainly related to the demolition of a building
of which the land is used to build a new parcel sorting centre.

2.1.5 Other operating expenses
The other operating expenses of €151 million (2017: €116 million) consist of IT, communication, office, travel, consulting and
training expenses and other shared services costs.
In 2018, total incurred EY audit fees amounted to €2.2 million (2017: €2.5 million).
PostNL
Audit fees
2017-2018, in € millions
Year ended at 31 December

2017

2018

Audit fees

1.5

1.3

Audit-related fees

0.6

0.9

Tax advisory fees

0.0

0.0

Other non-audit services

0.4

0.0

Total

2.5

2.2

Audit fees include fees from the audit of the financial statements. Audit-related services include fees from assurance engagements
related to the corporate responsibility information, regulatory reporting obligations, employee benefit plan data and other
assurance engagements for the benefit of third parties. Other non-audit services include fees from, amongst others, agreed upon
procedures.
In accordance with Dutch legislation, article 2:382a of the Dutch Civil Code, the total audit and audit-related fees charged by the
auditor EY based in the Netherlands amounted to €1.7 million (2017: €1.9 million).

2.2 Net profit and earnings per share
Net financial expense/(income)

Accounting policies
Interest income and expense are recognised on a time-proportionate basis using the effective interest method. All borrowing
costs are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method, except to the extent that they can be capitalised as
cost of a qualifying asset.

PostNL
Net financial expense/(income)
2017-2018, in € millions
2017
represented

2018

32

14

Interest on net defined benefit pension liabilities

8

8

Interest on taxes

1

0

Other

5

5

Interest and similar expense

46

27

Other interest and similar income

(4)

(3)

Net financial expense/(income)

42

24

Year ended at 31 December
Interest expenses on long-term borrowings

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

103

In 2018, interest expenses on long-term borrowings decreased mainly as a result of the repayment of bonds in November 2017 and
in August 2018, which were replaced by a new bond with a lower interest rate.

Income taxes
Accounting policies
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the
extent that it relates to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income. The amount of income tax included in the
income statement is determined in accordance with the rules established by the tax authorities, based on which income
taxes are payable or recoverable.

PostNL
Income taxes
2017-2018, in € millions
2017
represented

Year ended at 31 December

2018

44

45

9

(11)

Total income taxes

53

34

Income taxes paid

55

39

Current tax expense
Changes in deferred taxes

The difference between the total income taxes in the income statement and the current tax expense is due to temporary
differences. These differences are recognised as deferred tax assets or deferred tax liabilities, see note 3.7 to the consolidated
financial statements.
In 2018, the income taxes paid relate almost completely to income taxes paid in the Netherlands and include payments related to
prior years. The 2018 difference between the total income taxes (€34 million) and the income taxes paid (€39 million) can be
explained by the changes in deferred taxes (€11 million) and the 2018 movements of the net income tax payable position (€(6)
million).
PostNL
Effective income tax rate
2017-2018, in %
2017
represented

Year ended at 31 December

2018

Dutch statutory income tax rate

25.0

25.0

Adjustment regarding statutory income tax rates other countries

(0.1)

(0.4)

24.9

24.6

Weighted average statutory tax rate
Tax effects of:
Non and partly deductible costs

1.2

1.5

Exempt income

1.3

(0.3)

Other

Effective income tax rate

(4.6)

(4.7)

22.8

21.1

The line ‘Non and partly deductible costs’ mainly relates to non deductible costs relating to subsidiaries, the non deductible
treatment of our share based payments and of the so-called mixed expenses (e.g., meals, entertainment). The line ‘Exempt income’
relates to the non taxable treatment of our results from (former) participations. The line ‘Other’ consists mainly of the impact of tax
rate changes in the Netherlands on our deferred tax positions going forward (-3.9%), investment allowance (energy and
environmental incentives) in the Netherlands (-0.7%) and several smaller effects (-0.1%).

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

104

Earnings per ordinary share: 7.1 eurocents (2017: 33.0 eurocents)
Accounting policies
PostNL presents (diluted) earnings per share (EPS) for its ordinary shares. EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss
attributable to the equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the
period. Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to the equity holders of the parent by the weighted
average number of ordinary shares outstanding, including the effects for dilution of ordinary shares following the obligations
to employees under existing share plans.

The following table summarises the outstanding shares for PostNL’s calculation related to earnings per share.
PostNL
(Average) number of outstanding ordinary shares
2017-2018, in shares
Year averages and numbers at 31 December
Number of issued and outstanding ordinary shares
Shares held by the company to cover share plans
Average number of ordinary shares per year
Diluted number of ordinary shares per year

2017

2018

453,530,195

469,199,776

0

0

448,645,255

462,015,866

478,755

1,163,235

449,124,010 463,179,101

Average number of ordinary shares per year on a fully diluted basis

At 31 December 2018, PostNL had potential obligations under share plans to deliver 1,163,235 shares (2017: 478,755 shares),
calculated based on the share price of €1.997 as at 31 December 2018 (31 December 2017: €4.076).

2.3 Cash flow performance
Accounting policies
The consolidated statement of cash flows is prepared in accordance with IAS 7 using the indirect method. Cash flows in
foreign currencies are translated at average exchange rates. Receipts and payments with respect to taxation on profits and
interest payments are included in the cash flow from operating activities. Interest receipts and the cost of acquisition of
subsidiaries, associates and investments, insofar as it was paid for in cash, are included in cash flows from investing activities.
Acquisitions of subsidiaries are presented net of cash balances acquired. Cash flows from derivatives are recognised in the
statement of cash flows in the same category as those of the hedged item.

2.3.1 Net cash (used in)/from operating activities
In 2018, net cash from operating activities of €29 million (2017: €122 million) resulted from €94 million of cash generated from
operations (2017: €216 million) reduced by €26 million interest paid (2017: €39 million) and €39 million income tax paid (2017:
€55 million).
Cash generated from operations
The decrease in cash generated from operations of €122 million is explained by €82 million lower profit before income tax adjusted
for non-cash items and investment income and a change in working capital of €(83) million, partly offset by a lower change in
pension liabilities of €33 million and a lower change in other provisions of €10 million.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

105

PostNL
Cash generated from operations
2017-2018, in € millions
2017
represented

2018

334

252

Pension expense defined benefit plans

96

114

Past service pension cost/settlements

(11)

Year ended at 31 December

Total profit before tax adjusted for non cash items and investment income

(108)

(103)

Payment unconditional funding obligation

(32)

(33)

Change in pension liabilities

(55)

(22)

Cash contributions defined benefit plans

19

9

Withdrawals

(43)

(23)

Change in other provisions

(24)

(14)

Changes in working capital

(39)

(122)

Total cash generated from operations

216

94

Additions to/releases from provisions

For the changes in provisions, reference is made to note 3.4 Provisions for pension liabilities and to note 3.5 Other provisions. The
higher investments in working capital mainly related to higher trade accounts receivable within Parcels and a reduction of trade
accounts payable and the accrual for terminal dues within Mail in the Netherlands.
Interest paid
The interest paid is explained as follows:
PostNL
Interest paid
2017-2018, in € millions
Year ended at 31 December
Interest on long-term borrowings
Bank charges and other

Total

2017
represented

2018

34

20

5

6

39

26

The interest paid on long-term borrowings decreased mainly as a result of the repayment of a bond in 2017, which was replaced by
a new bond with a lower interest rate.
Income taxes paid
The income taxes paid of €39 million (2017: €55 million) mainly related to income taxes paid in the Netherlands and include
payments related to prior years.

2.3.2 Net cash (used in)/from investing activities
PostNL
Net cash investing activities
2017-2018, in € millions
2017
represented

Year ended at 31 December
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash)

2018

(33)
(101)

(95)

Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment

32

46

Changes in other loans receivable

(6)

1

Other

(3)

Capital expenditure on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment

Net cash (used in)/from investing activities

(111)

(48)

Acquisitions
In 2017, cash outflow net of cash for acquisitions related to the acquisition of PS Nachtdistributie (€22 million), the acquisition of JP
Haarlem (€2 million), the acquisition of Shops United (€6 million) and the acquisition of Cheap Cargo (€3 million).

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

106

Capital expenditure on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment
In 2018, capital expenditures on intangible assets of €40 million (2017: €35 million) mostly related to software including
prepayments for software. The capital expenditures on property, plant and equipment amounting to €55 million (2017: €66
million) mainly related to the new processing and distribution centres within Parcels. Capital expenditures are funded primarily by
cash generated from operations and are part of strict cash control and review.
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
In 2018, proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment amounted to €46 million (2017: €32 million) and mainly related
to the sale of several buildings.
Changes in other loans receivable
In 2017, changes in other loans receivable included a lessor loan of €6 million relating to the finance lease of a sorting machine by
Bol.com.

2.3.3 Net cash (used in)/from financing activities
In 2018, the net cash used in financing activities of €(285) million (2017: €27 million) mainly related to the final 2017 cash dividend
paid of €47 million (2017: final 2016 cash dividend: €25 million), interim 2018 cash dividend paid of €16 million (2017: interim 2017
cash dividend: €15 million) and the repayment of a eurobond of €223 million (2017: €328 million). In 2017, the net cash used in
financing activities included the proceeds of a new eurobond of €398 million. The proceeds from long-term borrowings of €3 million
relate to a sale and financial leaseback transaction of a Parcel sorting centre. Refer to note 3.2 for further information on the
financial leases we have concluded in 2018. Reference is made to note 4.1 Net debt and note 4.5 Financial instruments.

2.4 Other comprehensive income and equity development
The increase of total equity from €37 million on 31 December 2017 to €49 million on 31 December 2018 is mainly explained by net
profit for the year of €33 million and other comprehensive income of €39 million, partly offset by the payment of cash dividends of
€63 million in total. Other comprehensive income mainly consisted of a positive impact from pensions of €30 million and the
increase in value of the investment in Whistl by €11 million.
Equity attributable to the equity holders of PostNL consisted of the following items:

Issued share capital and Additional paid-in-capital
As at 31 December 2018, issued share capital amounted to €38 million (2017: €36 million) and additional paid-in-capital amounted
to €160 million (2017: €160 million). For details on Issued share capital and Additional paid-in capital, reference is made to note 4.6.

Currency translation reserve
As at 31 December 2018, the translation reserve amounted to €0 million (2017: €0 million), mainly reflecting the movement in
exchange rate differences on converting subsidiaries of Spring within Parcels into euros.

Hedge reserve
As at 31 December 2018, the hedge reserve amounted to €0 million (2017: €(1) million). The tax impact on the cash flow hedges
included in the hedge reserve as at 31 December 2018 is €0 million (2017: €1 million). For more information, see note 4.5 to the
consolidated financial statements.

Financial assets at fair value through OCI
As at 31 December 2018, the reserve related to the financial assets at fair value through OCI amounted to €11 million (2017: €0
million). The increase in 2018 related to the increase in value of the investment in Whistl by €11 million. For more information, see
note 4.2 to the consolidated financial statements.

Other reserves
As at 31 December 2018, the other reserves amounted to €54 million (2017: €74 million). In 2018, the other reserves decreased by
€20 million mainly resulting from the appropriation of net income from 2017 of €(48) million and a positive pension effect within
other comprehensive income (net of tax) of €30 million. For details on pensions, reference is made to note 3.4.

Retained earnings
As at 31 December 2018, retained earnings amounted to €(217) million (2017: €(235) million). In 2018, retained earnings
increased by €18 million due to the appropriation of net income from 2017 of €48 million and total profit for the year of €33 million
in 2018, partly offset by the payment of cash dividends of €63 million in total.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

107

The Board of Management has proposed to make an amount of €96 million out of the distributable part of the shareholders’ equity
available for distribution of dividend. Refer to note 6.5 for more details of this proposal.

2.5 Segment information
Accounting policies
PostNL reports two operating segments: Parcels and Mail in the Netherlands and one other segment: PostNL Other.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating
decision-makers. These chief operating decision-makers, who are responsible for allocating resources and assessing the
performance of the operating segments, have been identified as the Board of Management of PostNL that makes strategic
decisions. Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm's length basis. PostNL Other represents head office
entities, including the difference between the recorded IFRS pension expense for the defined benefit pension plans and the
actual cash contributions.

The following table presents the reconciliation of the 2018 segment information relating to the income statement of the reportable
segments. Segment information relating to the balance sheet is reported in note 3.10.
PostNL
Segmentation
2018, in € millions
Year ended at 31 December 2018
Revenue from contracts with customers
Intercompany sales
Other operating revenue

Total operating revenue
Other income
Depreciation/impairment property, plant and equipment
Amortisation/impairment intangibles

Total operating income

Parcels

Mail in NL

PostNL Other

1,342

1,415

1

Eliminations

205

257

73

(535)

8

6

1,555

1,678

74

(535)

Total
2,758
14

2,772

1

19

1

21

(21)

(31)

(6)

(58)

(9)

(11)

(5)

(25)

119

100

(34)

185
(24)

Net financial income/(expense)

0

Results from investments in jv's/associates
Income taxes

(34)

Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations

(94)

33

Profit for the year
Underlying cash operating income

117

93

(22)

188

The key financial performance indicator for management is underlying cash operating income. The underlying cash operating
performance focuses on the underlying cash earnings performance, which is the basis for the dividend policy. In the analysis of the
underlying cash operating performance, adjustments are made for exceptional items as well as adjustments for non-cash costs for
pensions and provisions. For pensions, the IFRS-based defined benefit plan pension expenses are replaced by the non-IFRS
measure of the actual cash contributions for such plans. For the other provisions, the IFRS-based net charges are replaced by the
related cash outflows. Underlying cash operating income is reported on a monthly basis to the chief operating decision-makers.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

108

The following table presents the reconciliation from reported operating income to underlying operating income and underlying
cash operating income.
PostNL
From reported to underlying (cash) operating income
2018, in € millions
Year
ended at
31
December

Reported
operating
income

Project costs
and
settlements

Parcels

119

Mail in NL

100

PostNL
Other

(34)

24

Total
2018

185

24

Impairment
building

Restructuring
related
charges

Payment
unconditional
funding
obligation
pensions
2

121

4

3

26

133

4

3

Consolidation
effect
discontinued
operations

Underlying
operating
income

Changes in
pension
liabilities

Underlying
cash
operating
income

(1)

(3)

117

(27)

(13)

93

Changes in
provisions

(28)

(7)

(45)

(4)

27

(22)

0

(7)

209

(32)

11

188

From reported to underlying operating income
In 2018, underlying operating income totalled €209 million (2017: €297 million). Underlying operating income excludes
exceptional items, which amounted to €24 million in 2018 (2017: €13 million). In 2018, project costs of €24 million mainly related
to regulatory-related advisory costs and settlements within PostNL Other. In 2018, the fourth instalment of the unconditional
funding obligation to the pension fund of €33 million was paid. The segments Parcels, Mail in the Netherlands and PostNL Other
record the unconditional funding obligation paid as expenses. As these payments do not represent IFRS-based pension expenses,
PostNL Other records the reverse effect.

From underlying operating income to underlying cash operating income
In 2018, underlying cash operating income totalled €188 million (2017: €241 million). The changes in provisions of €(32) million in
2018 (2017: €(43) million) represent the difference between the underlying net addition for restructuring and other provisions of
€4 million (2017: €(6) million) and the underlying cash payments of €36 million (2017: €37 million). The changes in pension
liabilities of €11 million in 2018 (2017: €(13) million) represent the difference between the recorded underlying pension expenses
of €126 million (2017: €107 million, excluding the positive effect of past service pension costs of €11 million), and the underlying
cash payments of €115 million (2017: €119 million), which excludes the fourth instalment of the unconditional funding obligation
of €33 million (2017: €32 million). The decrease of €53 million in underlying cash operating income comprised lower results at
Parcels (€23 million), Mail in the Netherlands (€32 million), only slightly offset by a higher result in PostNL Other (€2 million).
The following tables present the reconciliation of the 2017 segment information relating to the income statement of the reportable
segments. The figures have been represented for adjusted segment reporting and the impact of the discontinued operations.
Segment information relating to the balance sheet is reported in note 3.10.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

109

PostNL
Segmentation
2017, in € millions
Year ended at 31 December 2017
Revenue from contracts with customers
Intercompany sales
Other operating revenue

Total operating revenue
Other income
Depreciation/impairment property, plant and equipment
Amortisation/impairment intangibles

Total operating income

Parcels

Mail in NL

PostNL Other

1,204

1,505

0

Eliminations

170

270

76

(516)

8

8

1,382

1,783

76

(516)

Total
2,709
16

2,725

1

20

3

24

(18)

(28)

(7)

(53)

(5)

(7)

(5)

(17)

138

145

1

284

Net financial income/(expense)

(42)

Results from investments in jv's/associates

(10)

Income taxes

(53)

Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations

(31)

Profit for the year

148

Underlying cash operating income

140

125

(24)

241

PostNL
From reported to underlying (cash) operating income
2017 represented, in € millions
Year
ended at
31
December

Reported
operating
income

Project costs

Restructuring
related
charges

Payment
unconditional
funding
obligation
pensions

Past service
pension
costs/
settlements

Parcels

138

2

2

Mail in NL

145

17

27

(12)

PostNL
Other

Total
2017

Consolidation
effect
discontinued
operations

Underlying
operating
income

Changes in
provisions

Changes in
pension
liabilities

Underlying
cash
operating
income

142

0

(2)

140

177

(34)

(18)

125

1

9

6

(29)

1

(10)

(22)

(9)

7

(24)

284

9

25

0

(11)

(10)

297

(43)

(13)

241

Actuals 2017 represented for adjusted segment reporting and the impact of the discontinued operations in Italy and Germany.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

110

Section 3: Operating assets and liabilities
This section sets out the Group's assets used to generate trading performance and the liabilities incurred as a result. Liabilities
related to the Group's financing activities are addressed in section 4.
The main operating assets included in this section are: working capital, property, plant and equipment and intangible fixed
assets. The main operating liabilities included in this section are: provision for pension liabilities and other provisions.
The other disclosures included in this section are: investments in joint ventures and associates, deferred income tax assets
and liabilities and commitments and contingencies.
This section concludes with segmental information, where we split the relevant total operating assets and liabilities
according to our reportable segments and according to a geographical segmentation.

3.1 Working capital
3.1.1 Accounts receivable
Accounting policies
Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which PostNL has applied the practical
expedient are measured at the transaction price determined under IFRS 15. PostNL recognises an allowance for expected
credit losses (ECLs). ECLs are based on the difference between the contractual cash flows due in accordance with the
contract and all the cash flows that PostNL expects to receive, discounted at an approximation of the original effective
interest rate. For trade receivables, PostNL applies a simplified approach in calculating ECLs. Therefore, PostNL does not
track changes in credit risk, but instead recognises a loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date. PostNL has
established a provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss experience, adjusted for forward-looking factors
specific to the debtors and the economic environment. The amount of the ECLs is recognised in the income statement. Any
reversal of the ECLs is included in the income statement on the same line as where the original expense was recorded.
The risk of uncollectability of accounts receivable is primarily estimated based on prior experience with, and the past due
status of, doubtful debtors adjusted for forward-looking factors. Large accounts are assessed individually based on factors
that include ability to pay, bankruptcy and payment history. In addition, debtors in certain countries are subject to a higher
collectability risk, which is taken into account when assessing the overall risk of uncollectability.

PostNL
Accounts receivable
2017-2018, in € millions
At 31 December

2017

2018

Trade accounts receivable - total

401

323

Allowance for expected credit losses

(15)

(10)

Trade accounts receivable

386

313

VAT receivable

26

3

Other accounts receivable

24

9

Accounts receivable

50

12

436

325

Total accounts receivable

As at 31 December 2017, total accounts receivable included an amount of €136 million related to discontinued operations. Further
disclosure hereafter only relates to continuing operations.
Trade accounts receivable are non-interest bearing and are generally on terms of 3 to 30 days.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

111

The main part of the allowance for expected credit losses related to a collective loss component established for groups of similar
trade accounts receivable balances. This collective loss component is largely based on the ageing of the trade accounts receivable
and is reviewed periodically. The fair value of the total (trade) accounts receivable approximated its carrying value.
The concentration of the trade accounts receivable per customer is limited. The top 10 trade accounts receivable accounted for
18% of the outstanding balance as at 31 December 2018 (2017: 13%). The concentration of the trade accounts receivable portfolio
over the different regions can be summarised as follows:
Netherlands €278 million (2017: €238 million),
Rest of Europe €18 million (2017: €21 million), and
the rest of the world €17 million (2017: €14 million).
●

●

●

The ageing analysis of the trade accounts receivable past due is presented below.
PostNL
Ageing trade accounts receivable past due
2017-2018, in € millions
At 31 December

2017

2018

Up to 1 month

39

40

1-3 months

25

26

3-6 months

8

7

6-12 months

5

5

Over 12 months

9

8

87

86

Total

The movements in the allowance for expected credit losses of trade accounts receivable were as follows:
PostNL
Statement of changes in the allowance for expected credit losses of trade accounts receivable
2017-2018, in € millions
2017

2018

Balance at 1 January

8

9

Provided for during financial year

3

6

Releases

0

0

(2)

(5)

9

10

Receivables written off during year as uncollectable

Balance at 31 December

Set out below is the information about the credit risk exposure on the trade accounts receivable using a provision matrix.
PostNL
Expected credit losses
2017-2018, in € millions
Months past
due
Up to 1 month

1-2 months

2-3 months

3-4 months

over 4 months

Expected credit loss rate

1%

2%

9%

15%

21%

Gross amount of trade accounts receivable

213

25

17

2

25

282

2

1

1

0

5

9

Expected credit loss rate

1%

3%

9%

27%

25%

Gross amount of trade accounts receivable

255

32

12

3

21

323

2

1

1

1

5

10

At 31 December

Expected credit loss 2017

Expected credit loss 2018

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

112

Total

3.1.2 Other current liabilities
PostNL
Other current liabilities
2017-2018, in € millions
At 31 December

2017

2018

VAT payable

57

42

Social security contributions payable

27

21

Payments from customers received in advance

44

52

Other

22

11

Total

150

126

As at 31 December 2017, the other current liabilities included an amount of €21 million related to discontinued operations.

3.1.3 Contract liabilities
PostNL
Contract liabilities
2017-2018, in € millions
At 31 December

2017

2018

Deferred revenue from unused stamps

59

54

Deferred revenue from franking machines

10

9

Rental of mailboxes

12

10

Other amounts received in advanced from customers

12

7

Total

93

80

As at 31 December 2017, the contract liabilities included an amount of €7 million related to discontinued operations.
We expect to perform almost all services related to the outstanding contract liabilities at 31 December 2018 within one year.
However, note that within one year we expect outstanding contract liabilities more or less in line with the amounts currently
reported.

3.1.4 Accrued current liabilities
PostNL
Accrued current liabilities
2017-2018, in € millions
At 31 December

2017

2018

177

131

To be paid to personnel

47

20

Vacation days/vacation payments

81

77

170

147

Interest payable

7

1

Other accrued current liabilities

2

2

484

378

To be paid to third parties

Terminal dues

Total

As at 31 December 2017, the accrued current liabilities included an amount of €48 million related to discontinued operations.
Further disclosure hereafter only relates to continuing operations.
Main items within the expenses to be paid to third parties included payables to business partners of €16 million (2017: €13 million),
claims of €5 million (2017: €5 million), discounts to be paid of €2 million (2017: €3 million) and various other expenses to be paid.
Expenses to be paid to personnel included accrued wages and salaries of €14 million (2017: €15 million), the accrual for voluntary
termination agreements is reduced to nil (2017: €13 million).
The accrual for terminal dues relates to payables to foreign postal operators relating to the years 2018 and before. The change
reflects both the regular course of business as well as settlements of outstanding positions.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

113

3.2 Property, plant and equipment
Accounting policies
Property, plant and equipment is valued at historical cost, less depreciation and impairment losses. The initial costs of an
assets comprises its purchase price, costs of bringing the asset into working condition, handling and installation costs and
non-refundable purchase taxes.
Land is not depreciated. System software is capitalised and amortised as a part of the tangible fixed asset for which it was
acquired to operate.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the
present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in
long-term debt. Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the asset’s
useful life and the lease term.
Other property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, taking into account
any residual value. The asset’s residual value and useful life is reviewed on an annual basis and, if necessary, changes are
accounted for prospectively.
For the accounting policy concerning impairments, reference is made to note 5.4.

PostNL
Property, plant and equipment
2017-2018, in € millions
Land and
buildings
0%-10%

Depreciation percentage
Historical cost
Accumulated depreciation and impairments

Balance at 31 Dec 2016
Capital expenditure in cash

Plant and
equipment
10%-33%

Other
10%-33%

Construction
in progress
0%
23

477

82

(335)

(63)

321

142

19

23

505

20

35

8

11

74

(915)

1

1
3

Disposals

2

6

1

(3)

(3)

Internal transfers and reclassifications

12

3

2

Depreciation

(21)

(29)

(9)

Transfers to assets held for sale

(14)
12

2

(6)
17

Total changes

(3)

Historical cost
Accumulated depreciation and impairments

Balance at 31 Dec 2017
Capital expenditure in cash
Capital expenditure in financial leases
Disposals

(17)
(59)
(14)
5
1,426

815

505

89

(497)

(351)

(68)

318

154

21

17

510

33

18

2

4

57

9

14

(916)

23
(16)

(16)

Internal transfers and reclassifications

1,420

838
(517)

Capital expenditure in financial leases
Acquisition of subsidiaries

Total

8

3

Depreciation

(19)

(28)

(6)

Impairments

(5)

Transfers to assets held for sale

(6)

(6)

(5)

(5)

(22)

4

1

(9)

(12)

(16)

5

Total changes
Historical cost
Accumulated depreciation and impairments

Balance at 31 Dec 2018

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

114

(11)
(53)
(5)

780

487

61

(458)

(332)

(49)

322

155

12

1,333
(839)

5

494

Capital expenditures in 2018, including new finance leases, are above the level of 2017. Investments were made in the new sorting
centres within Parcels and in various other equipment. Both developments also impacted the internal transfers and reclassifications
from construction in progress to land and buildings, plant and equipment and other.
The disposals mainly related to the sale of real estate in the Netherlands. The book profit from the sale of real estate is included in
other income in the consolidated income statement.
The transfers to assets held for sale related for €3 million to buildings in the Netherlands and for €19 million to discontinued
operations. The amount of €19 million relating to discontinued operations represents the balance as at 1 January 2018 (3 August
2018: €18 million). The net movement of €(1) million included capital expenditures of €2 million and depreciation of €3 million.
In 2018, PostNL decided to finance a number of Parcel sorting centres and sorting machines through financial leases. PostNL
concluded these financial leases with an entity especially set up for this purpose by a third party. The term of the finance lease
contracts is 10 years. At 31 December 2018, one sorting centre has been finalized, which triggered the recording of the related
finance lease asset and liability. The construction of this centre started in 2017 in which year €3 million of capital investments were
made. In 2018, all further construction costs of €9 million have been incorporated in the concluded financial lease. A sale and lease
back transaction has been recorded for the €3 million of costs already capitalized in 2017. The cash proceeds are reported as
‘Proceeds from long-term borrowings’ in the cash flow statement. At 31 December 2018, two sorting centres are under construction
and will be finalised in 2019.
PostNL
Finance leases
2017-2018, in € millions
Year ended at 31 December

2017

2018

Land and buildings - leasehold rights and ground rents
Historical cost

22

17

Accumulated depreciation

(9)

(7)

13

10

Bookvalue

12

Land and buildings - sorting centres Parcels
Other equipment

Total bookvalue finance leases

1

15

14

37

The other leased equipment mainly relate to sorting machines and cash registers. The minimum lease payments to be paid under
these contracts represent the discounted value.
The leasehold rights and ground rent contracts related to land and buildings in the Netherlands. Those expiring:
●

●

●

●

●

between 1 and 5 years amount to €0 million (2017: €0 million),
between 5 and 20 years amount to €0 million (2017: €0 million),
between 20 and 40 years amount to €4 million (2017: €7 million),
thereafter amount to €6 million (2017: €6 million), and
with indefinite terms amount to €0 million (2017: €0 million).

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

115

3.3 Intangible fixed assets
Accounting policies
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of PostNL’s share of the identifiable net assets
acquired. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisition of joint ventures and
associates is included in investments in joint ventures/associates and is not separately recognised or tested for impairment.
Gains and losses on disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Separately-recognised goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and subject to an annual impairment review. Goodwill is
carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Other intangible fixed assets
Costs related to the development and installation of software for internal use are capitalised at historical cost and amortised
over the estimated useful life. Other intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at the
acquisition date.
An asset under construction is transferred to its respective intangible asset category at the moment it is ready for use and is
amortised using the straight-line method over its estimated useful life. Other intangible assets are valued at the lower of
historical cost less amortisation and impairment. The asset’s residual value and useful life is reviewed on an annual basis and,
if necessary, changes are accounted for prospectively.
For the accounting policy concerning impairments of goodwill and other intangible fixed assets, reference is made to note
5.4.

PostNL
Intangible fixed assets
2017-2018, in € millions
Goodwill
Amortisation percentage
Historical cost
Accumulated amortisation and impairments

Balance at 31 Dec 2016
Additions

Other
0%- 35%

300

238

45

583

(194)

(7)

(378)

123

44

38

205

20

26

12

58

1

15

Internal transfers/reclassifications
Amortisation
18

Historical cost
Accumulated amortisation and impairments

Balance at 31 Dec 2017
Transfers to assets held for sale

16
(2)

(2)

Total changes

Total

(177)

Acquisition of subsidiaries
Disposals

Software
10%- 35%

18

(18)

(17)

(3)

(20)

28

6

52

318

265

68

651

(177)

(193)

(24)

(394)

141

72

44

257

(44)

(6)

(12)

(62)

28

14

42

9

(9)

(22)

(3)

(25)

Additions
Internal transfers/reclassifications
Amortisation
Total changes

(44)

9

(10)

(45)

Historical cost

143

257

42

442

Accumulated amortisation and impairments

(46)

(176)

(8)

(230)

97

81

34

212

Balance at 31 Dec 2018

The transfers to assets held for sale of €62 million related to discontinued operations and represents the balance as at 1 January
2018 (3 August 2018: €62 million). The net movement of €0 million included additions of €3 million and amortisation of €3 million.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

116

Goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs) and tested for impairment. The CGUs correspond to an operation
in a particular country or region and the nature of the services provided. Compared to 2017, the CGU structure has not changed.
In 2017, the additions to goodwill related to the acquisition of PS Nachtdistributie (€10 million), JP Haarlem (€2 million), Shops
United (€6 million) and Cheap Cargo (€2 million). The goodwill of all acquisitions is allocated to the CGU Parcels. The disposals of
goodwill of €2 million related to the sale of Print Management (CGU Mail in the Netherlands).
PostNL
Goodwill per CGU
2017-2018, in € millions
Year ended at 31 December

2017

2018

Parcels

32

32

Mail in the Netherlands

65

65

Germany

42

Italy

2

Total

141

97

Based on the 2018 financial performance, a detailed review has been performed of the recoverable value of each CGU. The
recoverable value is the higher of the value in use and fair value less costs of disposal. Fair value less costs of disposal represents the
best estimate of the amount PostNL would receive if it sold the CGU. The recoverable value is determined based on the value in use.
The value in use has been estimated on the basis of the present value of future cash flows.
For both mature markets and non-mature markets, the estimated future net cash flows are based on a nine-year forecast and
business plan, as management considers these forecasts reliable based on past experience. The cash flow projections have been
approved by management.
PostNL has determined the budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its expectations for market development. The
weighted average growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts included in industry reports. The pre-tax discount rate used in
the CGU valuations varies around 10% (2017: 9% to 13%).
Key assumptions used to determine the recoverable values for each individual CGU are the following:
maturity of the underlying market, market share and volume development in order to determine the revenue mix and growth rate,
level of operating income largely impacted by revenue and cost development, taking into account the nature of the underlying
costs and potential economies of scale,
level of capital expenditure in network-related assets, and
discount rate to be applied following the nature of the underlying cash flows and foreign currency and inflation-related risks.
●

●

●

●

Management has carried out an impairment test for each individual CGU and concluded that the recoverable amount of the
individual CGUs is higher than the carrying amount.

Software and other intangibles
The closing balance of software and other intangibles is build up as follows:
PostNL
Software and other intangibles
2017-2018, in € millions
Year ended at 31 December
Internally-generated software
Purchased software
Software under construction
Customer lists

Total

2017

2018

65

74

7

7

11

16

33

18

116

115

The additions to software mainly concerned IT investments related to replacement and improvement of sorting and delivery
processes within Mail in the Netherlands and Parcels, and software licenses and costs of internally-generated software for various
IT projects including investments in our online landscape, logistic service platform and back office functionality. The reclassification
from other intangibles was due to finalised IT projects. The decrease in customer lists related mainly to the transfer to assets held
for sale of Postcon.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

117

The estimated amortisation expenses for software and other intangible assets are:
●

●

●

●

2019: €31 million,
2020: €29 million,
2021: €24 million, and
thereafter: €31 million.

PostNL does not conduct significant research and development activities and therefore does not incur research and development
costs.

3.4 Provisions for pension liabilities
Accounting policies
The net defined benefit liability/asset for all pension and other post-employment plans that qualify as defined benefit plans
is determined by calculating the present value of the defined benefit obligation and deducting the fair value of the plan
assets. The resulting deficit or surplus is adjusted for any effect of limiting a net defined benefit asset to the asset ceiling and
for any effect of minimum funding requirements.
PostNL uses actuarial calculations (projected unit credit method) to measure the obligations and the costs. Assumptions are
made about financial variables (such as the discount rate and the rate of benefit increases) and demographic variables (such
as employee turnover and mortality). The discount rate is determined by reference to market rates using high-quality
corporate bonds. The assumed return on plan assets equals the discount rate applied in the calculation of the pension
obligations at the beginning of the year.
Service costs are recognised as operating expenses in the income statement. Gains or losses on the amendment
or curtailment of a defined benefit plan (past service cost) and gains or losses on a settlement are recognised as operating
expenses in the income statement on the date of the amendment, curtailment or settlement.
The net interest expense/income on the net defined benefit liability/asset, asset ceiling and/or minimum funding
requirements, is recognised as ‘Interest and similar expenses/ income’ in the income statement (below operating income).
Deviations between the expected and actual development of the pension obligation and plan assets, resulting in actuarial
gains and losses, are recognised immediately within Other Comprehensive Income (net of tax). The impact of the asset
ceiling and/or minimum funding requirements is also recognised within Other Comprehensive Income (net of tax).
Pension costs for defined contribution plans are expensed in the income statement when incurred or due.

PostNL’s main Dutch defined benefit average pay pension plan (main plan) covers the employees subject to PostNL’s collective
labour agreement and staff with a personal labour agreement in the Netherlands. The main plan is externally funded in ‘Stichting
Pensioenfonds PostNL’ (main fund), an independent legal entity which is not owned or controlled by any other legal entity and
which falls under the regulatory supervision of De Nederlandsche Bank.
PostNL also runs a number of defined benefit transitional plans, which mainly consist of a conditional pension benefit (“soft
pension”) ultimately granted and financed towards the main fund at 31 December 2020 or retirement, if earlier.

Main developments during 2018
In 2015, PostNL started the payment of the unconditional funding obligation to the main fund by a first instalment of €32 million. In
2016, 2017 and 2018, the following instalments were paid. At 31 December 2018, the outstanding funding obligation amounted to
€33 million, which will be paid in 2019.

Further details of the main plan
The main plan is a defined benefit average pay scheme, with a basis accrual rate of 1.875% of the pensionable base and retirement
age set at 68 years. The pensionable base is derived as the pensionable salary, with a statutory maximum of €105,075 (level 2018),
minus a state pension offset.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

118

Pension (cash) contributions are bounded by a minimum level of 21.5% and a maximum level of 27.5% of the pensionable salary
base. The calculations are based on the main fund's expected return on plan assets. The resulting contributions are increased by
10% if the coverage ratio is below 120% and by 5% if the coverage ratio is between 120% and 130%. Based on the total maximum
premium amount, the intended pension accrual can be reduced in any year. Given the applicable financing arrangements and
current low interest rates, it is expected that the accrual rate will be lower than the basis level of 1.875% for the coming years. The
accrual rate for 2018 and 2019 has been set at 1.615% and 1.652% of the pensionable base.
When the 12 months average coverage ratio will be below the minimum required funding level of 104.0% a 5-year recovery period
will start, in which top-up payments of at most 1.25% of the fund’s plan obligations per year might apply. In determining the top-up
payment obligation, the resilience of the pension fund will be taken into account. The requirement to supplement a deficit will be
determined on the basis of the ‘beleidsdekkingsgraad’ (i.e. the 12-months average coverage ratio). Based on our projections we do
not anticipate any top-up payments.
By the end of 2018, the month-end coverage ratio of the main fund amounted 112.1% (2017: 115.8%), including the outstanding
payment of the unconditional funding obligation of €33 million by PostNL. The decreased coverage ratio is mainly explained by a
negative effect from a decrease of the interest rate and the negative return on plan assets. The 12-months average coverage ratio
amounted 116.0% per 31 December 2018 (2017: 113.4%).
The returns on plan assets are linked to the strategic investment policy of the main fund. The fund uses interest rate derivates to
reduce the net interest exposure on its assets and liabilities. The plan assets may from time to time include investments in PostNL’s
own financial instruments through indirect holdings by mutual funds. Around 73% of the fund's total plan assets have a quoted
market price in an active market. The unquoted part relates to investments in investment funds which invest in non-listed assets
(for example real estate investments) and non-listed derivatives.
PostNL
Asset mix/return of main pension plan
2017-2018, in %
Actual mix
2017

Actual mix
2018

Equities

32%

28%

Fixed interest and inflation linked bonds

61%

65%

Real estate and alternative investment

8%

8%

Swaps

-1%

-1%

Total

100%

100%

5.5%

-0.6%

At 31 December

Return

Statement of changes in provision for defined benefit plans
The following table presents an overview of the movement of the provision for post-employment benefit plans during 2018.
PostNL
Statement of changes in provision for defined benefit plans
2017-2018, in € millions
Balance at 31
December
2017

Transfers to
liabilities
relating to
assets held for
sale

Post-employment
benefit income/
(expenses)

Employer
contributions

Actuarial
gains/(losses)

Pension asset
ceiling/minimum
funding
requirement
(3)

Balance at 31
December
2018
(33)

Dutch main pension plan

(65)

(105)

106

34

Dutch transitional plans

(283)

(17)

30

8

(262)
(1)

Other plans

Provision for post-employment
benefit plans

(11)

9

0

0

1

(359)

9

(122)

136

43

(3)

(296)

The transfers to liabilities relating to assets held for sale of €9 million related to discontinued operations and represents the balance
as at 1 January 2018 (3 August 2018: €9 million). The net movement of €0 million included expenses of €2 million and employer
contributions of €2 million.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

119

The following table gives a break-down of total pension costs, pension cash contributions, actuarial gains and losses, and the impact
of the asset ceiling and/or minimum funding requirement.
PostNL
Details on cost, cash, gains and losses, and adjustments
2017-2018, in € millions

Regular defined benefit costs
Past service costs/settlements

2017
represented

2018

(104)

(122)

11

Defined contribution costs
Total employer pension costs
Of which included within salaries, pensions and social security contributions

refer to note 2.1.3

Of which included within interest and similar expenses

refer to note 2.2

(11)

(12)

(104)

(134)

(96)

(126)

(8)

(8)

108

103

Defined benefit payment unconditional funding obligation

32

33

Defined contribution cash contributions

11

12

151

148

Defined benefit cash contributions

Total employer pension cash contributions
Actuarial gain/(loss) due to:
Change in discount rate

from 2.0% to 1.8% (2017: from 1.8% to 2.0%)

300

(334)

Change in rate of benefit increases

from 1.5% to 1.1% (2017: from 1.1% to 1.5%)

(643)

603

(13)

(9)

Change in rate of benefit accrual
Changes in demographic assumptions
Experience adjustments

6

84

84

(67)

(266)

277

283

(234)

Total actuarial gain/(loss)

17

43

Net charge within Other Comprehensive Income

13

32

Actuarial gain/(loss) on benefit obligations
Actuarial gain/(loss) on plan assets

(20)

Adjustment for pension asset ceiling
Adjustment for minimum funding requirement

(14)

17

Total gross adjustment

(14)

(3)

Net charge within Other Comprehensive Income

(10)

(2)

The actuarial loss of €9 million (2017: loss of €13 million) resulting from a change in the rate of benefit accrual follows from the
maximum level of pension (cash) contributions of 27.5% of the pensionable base. Given current low interest rates and the
applicable financing arrangements, it is expected that the benefit accrual rate will be lower than the basis level of 1.875% for the
coming years.
The negative adjustment of €3 million is the consequence of the slight increase in the main fund’s funded status (on the basis of IAS
19 accounting) during 2018, triggering asset ceiling and adjustment of the recorded minimum funding requirement.
For 2019, we expect total cash contributions of around €146 million (2018: €148 million), including the fifth and last instalment of
the unconditional funding obligation of €33 million (2018: €33 million).
For 2019, we expect total employer pension costs of around €125 million (2018: €134 million). The decrease is mainly explained by
the lower rate of benefit increases, reflecting the development of the coverage ratio of the main fund. As the net liability of the main
pension plan is limited to the outstanding funding obligation, we expect an actuarial gain of around €25 million recorded in other
comprehensive income.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

120

Detailed reconciliation of the opening and closing balances
The following table reconciles the opening and closing balances of the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the fair
value of plan assets, the funded status and the netted pension provisions, and the employer pension expenses of PostNL's defined
benefit post-employment plans.
PostNL
Detailed overview of changes in consolidated defined benefit plans
2017-2018, in € millions
2017

2018

(8,542)

(8,826)

Service costs

(105)

(122)

Interest costs

(153)

(176)

Change in benefit obligation
Benefit obligation at beginning of year

9

Transfers to liabilities relating to assets held for sale

Past service costs

11

Settlements

1

Actuarial (losses)/gains

(266)

Benefits paid
Benefit obligation at end of year
Of which funded benefit obligations
Of which unfunded benefit obligations

277

228

231

(8,826)

(8,607)

(8,534)

(8,345)

(292)

(262)

8,165

8,515

146

169

Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year

0

Transfers to liabilities relating to assets held for sale
Assumed return on plan assets
Employee contributions

18

18

Employer contributions

141

136

Other costs

(9)

(9)

Settlements

(1)

Actuarial (losses)/gains

283

Benefits paid
Fair value of plan assets at end of year

(234)

(228)

(231)

8,515

8,364

(377)

(311)

(85)

(113)

Change in funded status
Funded status at the beginning of year

9

Transfers to liabilities relating to assets held for sale
Operating expenses
Interest (expenses)/income

(7)

(7)

Employer contributions

141

136

Actuarial (losses)/gains
Funded status at end of year

17

43

(311)

(243)
(20)

Impact of pension asset ceiling
Impact of minimum funding requirement
Netted pension liabilities

(48)

(33)

(359)

(296)

Components of employer pension expenses
(87)

(104)

Interest (expenses)/income

(8)

(8)

Past service costs/settlements

11

Service costs (net of employee contributions)

(9)

(9)

(93)

(121)

Discount rate

2.0%

1.8%

Rate of benefit increases

1.5%

1.1%

21.2/23.5

21.3/23.2

Other costs
Total post-employment benefit income/(expenses)
Weighted average assumptions as at 31 December

Life expectancy 65 year old men/women (in years)

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

121

Key assumptions
The discount rate is based on the long-term yield on high quality (AA-rated) corporate bonds, taking into account the duration of
the projected pension liabilities of around 18 years. The corporate bond yield information is sourced from Bloomberg, taking into
account a minimum outstanding amount and other defined selection criteria. By applying curve-fitting procedures, a yield curve is
generated. Using the full yield curve, the discounted value of the expected future benefit payments is matched with the
comparable present value when using a single discount rate.
The conditional benefit increases are based on the (derived) Consumer Price Index. The assumed rate of benefit increases is based
on advice, published statistics, the pension plan's ambition level and the actual financial status of the pension fund.
Assumptions regarding the longevity outlook are based on advice, published statistics and experience per country. The applied
prospective longevity rates are derived from the Dutch mortality table 'AG prognosetafel 2018' taking into account experience rates
based on postal areas, as applied by the main fund.

Sensitivity analysis of the defined benefit obligation
The table below shows the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation at year-end 2018 to deviations in key assumptions, with all
other assumptions held unchanged. The percentages presented exclude any impact from applying a liability ceiling, nor is the
impact on plan assets, asset ceiling and/or minimum funding requirement included. The sensitivity to life expectancy of +1/-1 year
is measured by assuming all plan participants 1 year younger/older. The percentages presented are prior to any effect of liability or
asset ceiling.
PostNL
Sensitivity defined benefit obligation
2018, as indicated
%-change in
assumptions
Benefit obligation at end of year (in € millions)

impact on
defined
benefit
obligation
8,607

Discount rate

+ 0.5%

-8.5%

Rate of benefit increases

+ 0.5%

10.1%

Life expectancy men/women

+ 1 yr

Benefit obligation at end of year (in € millions)

4.1%
8,607

Discount rate

- 0.5%

9.7%

Rate of benefit increases

- 0.5%

-8.3%

- 1 yr

-4.1%

Life expectancy men/women

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

122

3.5 Other provisions
Accounting policies
Provisions are recognised when there is a present obligation as a result of a past event, making it probable that an outflow of
resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the
amount of the obligation. Provisions are measured at the present value of management’s best estimate of the expenditure
required to settle the present obligation on the balance sheet date. The discount rate used to determine the present value
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. The gross-up of the
provision following the discounting of the provision is recorded in the income statement as interest expense.
PostNL recognises termination benefits when the company has committed to terminating the employment of current
employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal or provides termination benefits as a result
of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date
are discounted to their present value.
Provisions for onerous contracts are recorded when the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligation under the contract
exceed the economic benefits expected to arise from that contract, taking into account impairment of fixed assets first.

The following table presents the changes in the short-term and long-term provisions.
PostNL
Other long-term and short-term provisions
2017-2018, in € millions
Other
employee
benefit
obligations

Restructuring

Claims and
indemnities

Other

Total

13

1

6

3

23

4

26

2

8

40

17

27

8

11

63

(1)

(8)

(9)

4

7

3

3

17

(2)

(18)

(2)

(1)

(23)

(4)

(3)

(1)

(8)

2

(15)

(3)

(7)

(23)

12

1

5

1

19

7

11

19

12

Non-current other provisions
Current other provisions

Balance at 31 Dec 2017
Transfers to liabilities related to assets held for sale
Additions
Withdrawals
Releases
Total changes
Non-current other provisions
Current other provisions

Balance at 31 Dec 2018

5

3

21

4

40

The estimated utilisation of the other provisions in 2019 is €21 million, in 2020 €8 million, in 2021 €3 million and in 2022 and
thereafter €8 million.
The transfers to liabilities relating to assets held for sale of €9 million related to discontinued operations and represents the balance
as at 1 January 2018 (3 August 2018: €5 million). The net movement of €(4) million included additions of €5 million and
withdrawals of €9 million.
Other employee benefit obligations
As at 31 December 2018, the other employee benefit obligations related to jubilee benefits of €14 million and long term disability
benefits of €5 million.
Restructuring
The additions in restructuring provision of €7 million mainly relates to restructuring programmes whitin operations (€3 million), and
head office departments (€1 million).
The restructuring provisions are mainly related to the implementation of coding system and further centralization within
operations and the restructuring of our communication services department. The restructuring within head office departments
results from adjusting the employee base to the volume decline within Mail in the Netherlands and Parcels.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

123

The withdrawals of €18 million concerned severance payments under the cost saving programmes totaling €17 million related to
around 200 FTEs and payments for other initiatives totalling €1 million related to around 40 FTEs.
The release of €4 million mainly related to the cost saving programmes within operations and head office departments, resulting
from reduced redundancies due to increased attention on internal mobility and periodical reassessments of the expected cash
costs.
Claims and indemnities
The provision for claims and indemnities includes provisions for claims from third parties with respect to PostNL’s ordinary business
activities, as well as indemnities and disputes related to business disposals. More detailed information relating to these provisions is
not provided, as such information could prejudice the company’s position with respect to these claims and indemnities.
Other
Other provisions consist of dilapidation costs in relation to restructurings and guarantees provided to third parties.

3.6 Investments in joint ventures and associates
Accounting policies
An associate is an entity over which PostNL has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in the
financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which two or more parties have joint control. There are two types of joint
arrangements: joint operations and joint ventures. PostNL only participates in entities that can be considered as a joint
venture.
PostNL’s share in the results of joint ventures and associates is included in the consolidated income statement using the
equity method. The carrying value of PostNL’s share in joint ventures and associates includes goodwill on acquisition and
includes changes to reflect PostNL’s share in net earnings of the respective companies, reduced by dividends received. When
PostNL’s share of accumulated losses in a joint venture or associate exceeds its interest in the company, the book value of
the investment is reduced to zero and PostNL does not recognise further losses unless PostNL is bound by guarantees or
other undertakings in relation to the joint venture or associate.
For the accounting policy concerning impairments, reference is made to note 5.4.

The following table presents the changes in the carrying value of the investments in joint ventures and associates.
PostNL
Investments in joint ventures and associates
2017-2018, in € millions
2017

2018

Balance at 1 January

17

9

Share in net result

(1)
(8)

Transfers to assets held for sale

2

Additions
Capital contribution

6

Impairment Postkantoren/Bruna

(9)

Transfer Whistl to financial assets at fair value through OCI

(3)

Dividend received

(1)

Balance at 31 December

9

As at 31 December 2018, the investments in joint ventures mainly related to the 50% interest in Postkantoren B.V, a joint venture
with ING Bank N.V, within Mail in the Netherlands. The investments in associates mainly related to minority shareholdings in
MyParcel.com and RoamlerCare, within Parcels. All joint ventures are private companies and there is no quoted market price
available for their shares.
The transfers to assets held for sale of €8 million related to discontinued operations and represents the balance as at 1 January
2018 (3 August 2018: €8 million). There were no material movements.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

124

3

In 2018, the additions of €2 million related to the acquisition of 30% of the shares of MyParcel.com and 30% of the shares of
RoamlerCare. MyParcel.com develops and sells package delivery software for webshops. The multilingual platform is intended for
international customers and gives access to multiple delivery services, including Spring. RoamlerCare offers online platforms where
people who need care can make contact with independent care providers, to plan the care, to share information and to express
wishes.
In 2017, Whistl replaced the PostNL guarantee of £32 million by a guarantee of an external party. The release of the guarantee was
accompanied by other shareholding relationship changes, that led to PostNL losing its significant influence on the investment. As a
result the investment in associate Whistl has been transferred to financial assets at fair value through OCI.
In 2017, Postkantoren B.V. completed the sale of its 100% subsidiary Bruna B.V. Completion was accompanied by a recapitalisation
of Bruna of €5 million, which was preceded by a recapitalisation of Postkantoren of €6 million. The impairment of
Postkantoren/Bruna of €9 million reflected the further deteriorated financial situation following the reduced performance of Bruna
during 2017 for €4 million and the write-down of the sale-related recapitalisation of Bruna for €5 million.
Management has assessed none of the investments in joint ventures and associates to be material to the company. On a 100%
basis, the profit/(loss) of all immaterial investments in joint ventures amounted to €0 million (2017: €(3) million). The profit/(loss)
of all immaterial investments in associates amounted to €(1) million (2017: €4 million).

3.7 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities
Accounting policies
Deferred tax assets and liabilities arising from temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities
and the tax base of assets and liabilities are calculated using the substantively enacted tax rates expected to apply when they
are realised or settled. Deferred tax assets are recognised if it is probable that they will be realised. At the end of each
reporting period the amounts of deferred tax assets and the amounts of unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities within the same tax group, where a legally enforceable right to offset exists, are presented
net in the balance sheet.

The following table shows the movements in deferred taxes in 2018:
PostNL
Statement of changes deferred taxes
2018, in € millions
Net balance
31 December
2017

Changes via
income
statement

Changes via
other
comprehensive
income

Transfers to
held for sale

25

10

(13)

Intangible assets

(27)

(1)

Property, plant and equipment

(30)

7

11

(1)

(8)

4

7

(4)

(1)

(14)

11

(6)

Provisions

Losses carried forward
Other

Deferred tax
assets/liabilities

(13)

Net balance
31 December
2018

Assets

(1)

21

21

4

(24)

2

26

(23)

14

37

6

6

53

55

55

57

35

Other
changes

Offsetting

Net deferred taxes

(14)

11

(13)

(6)

57

35

Liabilities

98

63

(32)

(32)

66

31

Of the deferred tax assets at 31 December 2018, €8 million (2017: €2 million) is to be recovered within 12 months and €58 million
(2017: €27 million) after 12 months. Of the deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2018, an amount of €20 million (2017: €8 million)
is to be settled within 12 months and an amount of €11 million (2017: €35 million) after 12 months.
The changes via other comprehensive income of €(13) million fully relate to taxes on OCI from pensions, of which €(3) million relate
to the impact of tax rate changes in the Netherlands.
The transfer to held for sale of €6 million related to discontinued operations and represents the balance as at 1 January 2018 (3
August 2018: €8 million). The net movement of €2 million included additions related mainly to losses carried forward of €2

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

125

million. The other changes of €57 million represent mainly the Dutch tax credit potential upon realising (liquidation) losses in
connection with the sale of the Nexive and Postcon businesses (refer to note 3.8).
The total accumulated losses available for carry forward at 31 December 2018 amounted to €112 million (2017: €230 million). With
these losses carried forward, future tax benefits of €30 million could be recognised (2017: €67 million). Tax deductible losses give
rise to deferred tax assets at the statutory tax rate in the relevant country. Deferred tax assets are recognised if it is probable that
they will be realized. The probability of the realisation is impacted by uncertainties regarding the realisation of such benefits, for
example as a result of the expiration of tax losses carried forward and projected future taxable income.
As a result PostNL has not recognised €24 million (2017: €56 million) of the potential future tax benefits and has recorded deferred
tax assets of €6 million at 31 December 2018 (2017: €11 million).
The expiration of total accumulated losses is as follows:
2019: €5 million,
2020: €5 million,
2021: €1 million,
2022: €5 million,
2023 and thereafter: €26 million, and
Indefinite: €70 million.
●

●

●

●

●

●

The following table shows the movements in deferred taxes in 2017:
PostNL
Statement of changes deferred taxes
2017, in € millions
Changes via
other
comprehensive
income

Net balance
31 December
2016

Changes via
income
statement

33

(8)

Intangible assets

(19)

(4)

(4)

(27)

1

28

Property, plant and equipment

(23)

(8)

1

(30)

16

46

9

2

11

11

Provisions

Losses carried forward

Acquisition of
subsidiaries

Net balance
31 December
2017

Assets

25

25

Liabilities

Other

(2)

9

7

10

3

Deferred tax assets/liabilities

(2)

(9)

0

(3)

(14)

63

77

(34)

(34)

(2)

(9)

0

(3)

(14)

29

43

Offsetting

Net deferred taxes

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

126

3.8 Assets classified as held for sale
Accounting policies
Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered
principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable. They are stated at the lower of the carrying
amount and fair value less costs to sell. Assets held for sale are no longer amortised or depreciated from the date they are
classified as such. Accounting for assets classified as held for sale requires the use of assumptions and estimates. In line with
IFRS 5, management assessed compliance with these statements and the assumptions used in the fair value calculations as
well as the estimated costs to sell.
For the accounting policy concerning impairments, reference is made to note 5.4.
Discontinued operations
A disposal group qualifies as discontinued operation if it is a component of an entity that either has been disposed of, or is
classified as held for sale, and:
• represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations
• is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, or
• is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
Discontinued operations are excluded from the results of continuing operations and are presented as a single amount as
profit or loss after tax from discontinued operations in the income statement. The comparative figures of 2017 of the income
statement and the cash flow statement have been represented for the change to discontinued operations.

As at 31 December 2018, assets classified as held for sale amounted to €200 million (2017: €10 million) and related for €5 million to
buildings held for sale in the Netherlands (2017: €10 million) and for €195 million to Nexive and Postcon. The liabilities related to
assets classified as held for sale of €121 million related to Nexive and Postcon.

Nexive and Postcon
In line with PostNL’s strategy to accelerate our transformation to become the logistics and postal solutions provider in the Benelux,
PostNL has decided to divest Nexive and Postcon. On 3 August 2018, the classification criteria of IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for
Sale and Discontinued Operations were met. Accordingly, as of Q3 2018, Nexive and Postcon are reported as ‘held for sale’ and the
results and cash flows are reported as ‘discontinued operations’. The divestment process is on track. We expect to make further
announcements before the summer of 2019.
The following table presents the financial performance and cash flow information of the discontinued operations for the years 2017
and 2018.
PostNL discontinued operations
Financial performance and cash flow
2017-2018, in € millions
2017

2018

Revenues

775

757

Expenses

(806)

(798)

(31)

(41)

Operating income

3

Results from investments in jv's/associates

3

Income taxes
(31)

(35)

(31)

(94)

Net cash used in operating activities

(24)

(45)

Net cash used in investing activities

(9)

(7)

0

0

(33)

(52)

Profit/(loss) after taxes

(59)

Impairment to fair value

Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations

Net cash from financing activities

Changes in cash and cash equivalents

The fair value impairment of €(59) million includes a positive tax effect of €57 million (refer to note 3.7). The fair value
measurement is based on inputs not based on observable market data (level 3).

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

127

Fair value represents the price that would be received when selling an asset in an orderly transaction between willing market
participants. Our valuations have initially been measured by using an income approach with the most critical inputs operating
income and discount rate. Those valuations are market-corroborated based on confirmatory non-binding indicative offers received.
In case the confirmatory non-binding indicative offers deviated from the value as calculated through the income approach,
management considered the reasons for deviations and made adjustments where deemed necessary.
By nature measuring fair value involves risk and uncertainty because the valuation is linked to future events and circumstances and
there are many factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from the expectations as included in
the measurement.
The following table presents the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities (excluding equity and intercompany balances) at the
year ended 31 December 2018.
PostNL discontinued operations
Condensed balance sheet
2017-2018, in € millions
2018
7

Total non-current assets
Trade accounts receivable

87

Other current assets

81

Cash and cash equivalents

20

195

Total assets
Provisions

11

Trade accounts payable

48
62

Other current liabilities

121

Total liabilities

The main part of the provisions of €11 million related to the unfunded defined benefit plan Trattamento di Fine Rapporto (TFR) of
€7 million in Italy (applying a discount rate of 1.6%).
The average number of employees working for the discontinued operations was 4,908 employees (2017: 5,298) with a comparable
number of FTEs of 4,256 FTEs (2017: 4,488).
As a specific contingent tax liability, at the end of December 2018 a tax dispute exists relating to the years 2012 and 2013 which
can be estimated, using a probability-weighted assessment, at €7 million. Although we believe that this risk is in the low possibility
range (20%-30%), supported by external advice, the outcome of the matter will depend upon the result of any negotiations with
the relevant tax authorities and the outcome of related litigation. Furthermore, it is uncertain whether comparable tax disputes will
arise for the years as from 2014 onwards.

Property plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment included in assets held for sale relate to buildings in the Netherlands. The book profit from the sale
of buildings is included in other income in the consolidated income statement. The following table presents the movements of the
balance sheet positions during 2018 and 2017.
PostNL
Property, plant and equipment
2017-2018, in € millions
2017
Balance at 1 January
Disposals

2018

4

10

(8)

(8)

0

0

Transfers to/from property, plant and equipment

14

3

Balance at 31 December

10

5

Impairments

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

128

3.9 Commitments and contingencies
Accounting policies
Commitments are probable obligations that arises from past events whose existence will only be confirmed by the
occurrence (or non-occurrence) of one or more probable future events.
Contingencies are possible obligations (contingent liabilities) or possible assets (contingent assets) that arise from past
events whose existence will only be confirmed by the occurrence (or non-occurrence) of one or more uncertain future
events, not wholly within the control of the entity.

PostNL
Off balance sheet commitments
2017-2018, in € millions
At 31 December
Rent and operating lease

2017

2018

153

133
39

Finance lease
Capital expenditure

37

20

Purchase commitments

74

123

As at 31 December 2017, rent and operating lease commitments included an amount of €17 million related to discontinued
operations. Further disclosure hereafter only relates to continuing operations.
As at 31 December 2018, €155 million of the commitments indicated above are of a short-term nature (2017: €155 million).
Rent and operational lease contracts
In 2018, operational lease expenses (including rental) in the consolidated income statement amounted to €67 million (2017:
€66 million). There were no significant individual lease contracts as at 31 December 2018. Future payments on non-cancellable
existing lease contracts mainly relating to real estate, computer equipment and other equipment are as follows:
PostNL
Repayment schedule rent/operational leases
2017-2018, in € millions
At 31 December

2017

2018

Less than 1 year

50

51

Between 1 and 2 years

33

34

Between 2 and 3 years

23

22

Between 3 and 4 years

15

12

Between 4 and 5 years

6

6

Thereafter

9

8

136

133

Total

Finance lease
As at 31 December 2018, commitments in connection with finance leases amounted to €39 million and are related to property,
plant and equipment under construction. The leases will commence in 2019 with repayments in 10 years. These commitments
primarily relate to the new sorting centres of Parcels.
Capital expenditure
As at 31 December 2018, commitments in connection with capital expenditure amounted to €20 million (2017: €37 million) and are
related to property, plant and equipment. These commitments primarily relate to the new sorting centres of Parcels.
Purchase commitments
As at 31 December 2018, PostNL had unconditional purchase commitments of €123 million (2017: €74 million), primarily related to
various service and maintenance contracts for information technology, security, salary registration and cleaning.
Contingent tax assets and liabilities
Multinational groups of the size of PostNL are exposed to varying degrees of uncertainty related to tax planning, regulatory reviews

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

129

and audits. PostNL accounts for its (income) taxes on the basis of its own internal analyses, if needed, supported by external
advice. PostNL continually monitors its global tax position, and whenever uncertainties arise, assesses the potential consequences
and either records the receivable, discloses a contingent asset, accrues the liability or discloses a contingent liability in its financial
statements, depending on the strength of the company’s position and the resulting chance of income or risk of loss.
In this regard, a contingent tax asset exists around PostNL’s Dutch VAT position. In Q4 2018, we started a discussion with the Dutch
tax authorities around the method to calculate our non-deductible VAT. These discussions have not been finalised to date. For the
year 2018 this can result in a lower amount of non-deductible VAT of multiple millions.
Guarantees
As at 31 December 2018, PostNL, on behalf of its subsidiaries, had various parental and bank guarantees outstanding. However,
none resulted in an off-balance sheet commitment for the Group as the relating obligations to external parties have already been
recognised by these subsidiaries following their ordinary course of business.
Contingent legal liabilities
The company is involved in several legal proceedings relating to the normal conduct of its business, such as claims for loss of goods,
delays in delivery, trademark infringements, subcontracting and employment issues, and general liability. The majority of these
claims are for amounts below €1 million and are insured and/or provided for. PostNL does not expect any liability arising from any
of these legal proceedings to have a material impact. The company is also involved in regulatory proceedings. While it is not
feasible to predict or determine the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, the company is of the opinion that they may have an
impact on the company’s financial position, result of operations and cash flows going forward. The company has made provisions
for probable liabilities where deemed necessary and to the extent a reliable estimate of the future cash outflows can be made.
Separation agreement PostNL and TNT Express
Following the demerger of Express, PostNL and TNT Express entered into a separation agreement, which remained valid despite
the sale of the shares in TNT Express under the public offer by FedEx in May 2016. The separation agreement creates certain rights
and obligations for both PostNL and TNT Express after the demerger. Relevant aspects relate to pensions, litigation, such as claim
and litigation handling, non-allocated and non-anticipated claims and release of provisions.
Pursuant to the pension arrangements concluded between PostNL, TNT Express and the pension funds, PostNL provided a
subsidiary guarantee for TNT Express in the event of violation of contractual terms, irregularity of payments and bankruptcy. This
subsidiary guarantee only relates to pension benefits accrued under the existing pension plans (up to the date of the demerger)
and will comprise a liability that gradually decreases over time. In addition, PostNL has provided a guarantee for future TNT Express
pension payments, barring certain unforeseen circumstances. The guarantees of PostNL will only exist as long as the coverage ratio
of the TNT Express fund is below a certain level. If the coverage ratio rises above that level and remains above that level for three
consecutive quarters, the guarantees lapse.
As at 31 December 2018, no events had occurred that triggered disclosure of a significant contingent asset or liability following the
aforementioned agreement with TNT Express.

3.10 Segment information
Accounting policies
PostNL reports two operating segments: Parcels and Mail in the Netherlands and one other segment: PostNL Other.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating
decision-makers. These chief operating decision-makers, who are responsible for allocating resources and assessing the
performance of the operating segments, have been identified as the Board of Management of PostNL that makes strategic
decisions. Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm's length basis.

Balance sheet information
A reconciliation of the segment information relating to the balance sheet of the reportable segments is presented below. Segment
information relating to the income statement is reported in note 2.5.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

130

PostNL
Segmentation - balance sheet and capital expenditures
2018, in € millions
At 31 December 2018

Asstes/liabilities
held for sale

Total

Parcels

Mail in NL

PostNL Other

72

112

28

212

Property, plant and equipment

283

195

16

494

Trade accounts receivable

140

172

1

313

58

68

261

566

554

383

Intangible assets

Other current assets

Total assets
Trade accounts payable

40

82

24

Other current liabilities

159

432

21

299

723

506

52

30

13

Total liabilities
Cash out for capital expenditures

387

195

1,698
146
612

121

1,649
95

A reconciliation of the segment information relating to the balance sheet of the reportable segments as at 31 December 2017 is
presented below. The figures have been represented for adjusted segment reporting and the impact of the discontinued
operations.
PostNL
Segmentation - balance sheet and capital expenditures
2017, in € millions
Parcels

Mail in NL

PostNL Other

Reconciliation
to the balance
sheet

68

103

24

62

257

Property, plant and equipment

242

229

20

19

510

Trade accounts receivable

103

168

2

113

386

At 31 December 2017
Intangible assets

Other current assets

Total

55

71

632

109

867

482

587

690

321

2,080

Trade accounts payable

33

107

29

51

220

Other current liabilities

154

495

260

87

996

266

842

784

151

2,043

44

46

11

Total assets

Total liabilities
Cash out for capital expenditures

101

The segment information from a geographical perspective is derived as follows: the basis of allocation of assets and investments by
geographical area is the location of the assets.
PostNL
Geographical segmentation - assets
2017-2018, in € millions
At 31 December

Intangible
assets

2018
Property,
plant and
equipment

Financial
fixed assets

211

492

91

Intangible
assets

2017
Property,
plant and
equipment

Financial fixed
assets

194

489

30

57

11

9

Italy

5

8

10

Rest of Europe

1

2

1

1

2

1

257

510

50

212

494

92

257

510

50

212

494

92

The Netherlands
Germany

Europe
Rest of the World

Total

In 2018, the assets of Germany and Italy mainly related to the discontinued operations, reported as assets held for sale and further
disclosed in note 3.8.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

131

Section 4: Capital structure and financing costs
This section sets out the Group’s capital structure and related (financing) costs.
We start by exploring our net asset / net debt position, the Group’s key measure used to evaluate total cash resources net of
the current outstanding debt. We next disclose how the Group manages its financial risks. PostNL’s activities expose the
company to a variety of financial risks, such as market risks, credit risk and liquidity risk. PostNL’s overall risk management
programme focuses on mitigating these risks, which arise in the normal course of business. We continue with a summary of
the Group’s financial instruments.
We conclude this section with the disclosure of our equity structure, the individual components therein and an analysis of the
movements during the year.

Accounting policies
PostNL distinguishes the following categories of financial assets and liabilities:
financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss,
financial assets and financial liabilities measured at amortised costs,
financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
●

●

●

Management determines the classification of PostNL’s financial assets and liabilities at initial recognition.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
PostNL uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward currency contracts, interest rate swaps to hedge its foreign
currency risks and interest rate risks. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on
which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as:
●

●

fair value hedges (hedges of the fair value of recognised assets and liabilities of a firm commitment);
cash flow hedges (hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecasted
transaction).

At the inception of a hedge relationship, PostNL formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which it wants
to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge. For all cash flow
hedges PostNL wants to apply hedge accounting.
Fair value hedges
The change in the fair value of a hedging instrument is recognised in the statement of profit or loss as financial income or
expense.
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of the change in the fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in OCI in the cash flow hedge
reserve, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the statement of profit or loss. The cash flow hedge
reserve is adjusted to the lower of the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument and the cumulative change in fair
value of the hedged item.
Amounts accumulated in OCI are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit and
loss (for example, when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged
results in the recognition of a non-financial asset, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from
equity and included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

132

cumulative gains or losses existing in equity at that time remain in equity until the underlying transaction is ultimately
recognised in the income statement. When an underlying transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gains or
losses that were reported in equity are immediately transferred to the income statement.
Fair value measurement is based on the following fair value measurement hierarchy: 1) quoted prices (unadjusted) in active
markets, 2) inputs other than quoted prices that are observable either directly (prices) or indirectly (derived from quoted
prices), and 3) inputs not based on observable market data. Valuation techniques used include the use of recent arm’s-length
transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, statutory/management reports and discounted
cash flow analysis.
Financial assets and financial liabilities measured at amortised costs using the effective interest method
A financial asset is measured at amortised cost if both of the following conditions are met:
●

●

the asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect contractual cash flows; and
the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal
and interest on the principal amount outstanding.

All financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, except for financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value net of transaction costs incurred and are subsequently stated at
amortised cost. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in
the income statement over the period of the financial liability using the effective interest method.
Financial assets designated at fair value through other comprehensive income
PostNL's equity investments are classified as equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI. Gains and losses on
these financial assets are never recycled to profit or loss. Dividends are recognised as financial income in the statement of
profit or loss when the right of payment has been established, except when PostNL benefits from such proceeds as a
recovery of part of the cost of the financial asset, in which case, such gains are recorded in OCI. Equity instruments
designated at fair value through OCI are not subject to impairment assessment.

4.1 Net debt
As at 31 December 2018 net debt amounted to €149 million (2017: net cash of €27 million) and included the items disclosed
hereafter. The decrease of €176 million includes a movement related to discontinued operations of €72 million. The remaining
decrease of €104 million mainly resulted from negative net cash from operating and investing activities of €19 million, (interim)
dividend payments of €63 million and new finance leases of €23 million.

Other loans receivable
As at 31 December 2018, other loans receivable of €6 million (2017: €7 million) mainly include a lessor loan of €6 million relating to
the finance lease of a sorting machine by Bol.com. The expected credit loss amounts to €0 million.

Cash and cash equivalents
PostNL
Cash and cash equivalents
2017-2018, as indicated
Nominal
amount

At 31 December

Average
amount

Effective
interest rate

Cash at bank and in hand

253

Bank deposits

100

120

(0.20%)

Money Market Funds

292

217

(0.33%)

10

60

(0.35%)

122

203

(0.39%)

645

Total cash and cash equivalents 2017

137

Cash at bank and in hand
Bank deposits
Money Market Funds

269

Total cash and cash equivalents 2018

As at 31 December 2018, included in cash and cash equivalents was €0 million (2017: €0 million) of restricted cash. The fair value of
cash and cash equivalents approximated the carrying value.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

133

Debt
As at 31 December 2018, debt consists of long-term debt of €420 million (2017: €400 million) and short-term debt of €4 million
(2017: €225 million).
PostNL
Total borrowings - maturity schedule
2018, in € millions
Financial
leases

Other loans

Total

2019

3

1

4

2020

3

Eurobonds

3

3

398

16

414

398

25

398

22

2021
Thereafter

Total borrowings
Of which included in long-term debt

3

Of which included in short-term debt

3

1

424
420
4

1

The decrease in debt in 2018 is due to the redemption of our eurobond in August 2018. Refer to note 4.5 for more details on the
current outstanding eurobonds.
The non-cash changes in debt amounted to €21 million and related for €23 million to new finance leases.

4.2 Financial assets at fair value through OCI
The following table presents the changes in the carrying value of the financial assets at fair value through OCI.
PostNL
Financial assets at fair value through OCI
2017-2018, in € millions
2017

2018

Balance at 1 January

1

5

Additions

1

1
11

Remeasurement recognised in OCI
Transfer Whistl from investments in associates

3

Balance at 31 December

5

17

As at 31 December 2018, the investments in financial assets at fair value through OCI relate to investments in equity shares of
non-listed companies. PostNL holds non-controlling interests in Whistl Group Holdings Limited, Endeit Fund II Coöperatief U.A. and
Clean Clothes B.V. The assessment of fair value is based on key performance indicators included in related management and
statutory reports and derived from the expected development of business and financial performance and external valuation
insights, if available. In 2018, the fair value remeasurement of €11 million related to our stake in Whistl.

4.3 Capital management
Capital management is focused on the following components of the current capital structure:
●

●

●

●

●

targeting a leverage ratio (adjusted net debt/EBITDA) not exceeding 2.0 (outcome 2018: 1.9);
structural availability of €300 million to €400 million of undrawn committed facilities out of our revolving credit facility (reference
is made to note 4.4);
structural funding via a combination of public and bank debt, with a risk-weighted mix of fixed and floating interest;
cash pooling systems that ensure optimal cash requirements for the PostNL Group by facilitating centralised funding and surplus
cash concentration at group level;
tax-optimal internal and external funding focused on optimising the cost of capital for PostNL, within boundaries that are
sustainable on a long-term basis.

4.4 Financial risk management
PostNL’s activities expose the company to a variety of financial risks, such as interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange risk,
credit risk and liquidity risk. All these risks arise in the normal course of business and PostNL therefore uses various techniques and
financial derivatives to mitigate them.
The following analyses provides quantitative information regarding PostNL’s exposure to the financial risks described above. There
are certain limitations and simplifications inherent in the analyses presented, primarily due to the assumption that rates change in
a parallel fashion and instantaneously. At the same time, for example, the impact of changes in interest on foreign exchange

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

134

exposures and vice versa is ignored. In addition, the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that would
normally arise from the market shifts assumed.
PostNL uses derivative financial instruments solely for the purpose of hedging currency and interest exposures. The company
enters into contracts related to derivative financial instruments for periods commensurate with its underlying exposures and does
not take positions independent of these exposures. None of these financial instruments are leveraged or used for trading purposes
or to take speculative positions.
Financial risk management is carried out by Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board of Management. Group Treasury
identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks and exposures in close cooperation with operating units. The Board of Management
provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering the financial risks. Periodic reporting on
financial risks is embedded in the overall risk framework and is provided to the Board of Management in a structural way.
Group Treasury matches and manages the intragroup and external financial exposures. Although the company generally enters
into hedging arrangements and other contracts to reduce its exposures, these measures may be inadequate or may subject the
company to increased operating or financing costs.
Interest rate risk
PostNL identifies interest rate risk associated with its financial assets and borrowings. Virtually all debts are at fixed rates, an
increase in the rate will therefore not affect the cost base. As at 31 December 2018, PostNL’s gross interest-bearing borrowings,
including finance lease obligations, totalled €424 million (2017: €625 million), all at fixed interest rates. Financial assets are on
average of a short-term nature.
At 31 December 2018, if interest rates on borrowings and financial assets had been 1% higher with other variables held constant,
the profit before income tax would have been €3 million higher (2017: €6 million). The potential profit increase is entirely
attributable to interest income on the cash and cash equivalents. Equity would be positively affected by €3 million (2017:
€0 million), mainly due to the interest income on cash and cash equivalents.
Foreign currency exchange risk
PostNL has international operations that generate foreign currency exchange risks arising from future commercial transactions,
recognised assets and liabilities, investments and divestments in foreign currencies other than functional currencies of the
respective business units of PostNL, irrespective of whether it is the euro (PostNL’s functional and reporting currency) or another
functional currency. For accounting purposes the European Central Bank is used as the source.
The main currencies of PostNL’s external hedges are the British Pound, Hong Kong Dollar and US Dollar.
The Board of Management has set a policy requiring Group companies to manage their foreign exchange risk against the functional
currency. Group companies are required to hedge material exposures via the use of foreign exchange derivatives with Group
Treasury, whereby a financing company operated by Group Treasury trades these foreign exchange derivatives with external
banks. As at 31 December 2018, PostNL had no net investment hedges outstanding. Significant acquisitions and local debt are
usually funded in the currency of the underlying assets.
As at 31 December 2018, if the euro had weakened 10% against the British Pound, the Hong Kong Dollar and the US Dollar with all
other variables held constant, the profit before income taxes on the foreign exchange exposure on financial instruments would
have been €0 million lower/higher (2017: €0 million). In 2018, the net income sensitivity to movements in euro/pound sterling,
euro/HK dollar and euro/US dollar exchange rates is neglectable and did not change compared to 2017. Equity would have
been positively impacted by €4 million (2017: €8 million negative), all related to the move in the hedge reserve.
Credit risk
Credit risk represents the potential losses that the company would incur if counterparties are unable to fulfil the terms of underlying
agreements. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivatives and deposits with banks and financial institutions as well
as credit exposures relating to customers. The credit risk exposure is minimised by only transacting with financial institutions,
ensuring established credit guidelines are met and by managing its customer portfolio.
On the reporting date, there was no significant concentration of credit risk across the customer portfolio. The top 10 trade accounts
receivable accounted for 18% of outstanding trade receivables as at 31 December 2018.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

135

Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of
committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses,
PostNL attempts to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available. The terms and conditions of
PostNL’s material long-term and short-term debts, as well as its material drawn or undrawn committed credit facilities do not
include any financial covenants. There are no obligations to accelerate repayments of these material debts and committed facilities
in the event of a credit rating downgrade. A downgrade in PostNL’s credit rating may negatively affect its ability to obtain funds
from financial institutions and banks and increase its financing costs by increasing the interest rates on its outstanding debt or the
interest rates at which the company is able to refinance existing debt or incur new debt.
At 31 December 2018, the €400 million committed credit facility (maturity date: 10 April 2022) was undrawn (2017 undrawn).
The following table analyses PostNL’s financial liabilities, categorising them into relevant maturity groupings based on the
remaining period on the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date. The outgoing flows disclosed in the table are the
contractual undiscounted cash flows that contain the redemptions and interest payments.
PostNL
Maturity liquidity risks
2017-2018, in € millions
At 31 December
Eurobonds

Less than 1
year

Between 1
and 3 years

Thereafter

Book value

243

8

416

597

Financial leases

2

2

Interest rate and cross-currency swaps - outgoing

239

Foreign exchange contracts - outgoing

215

Trade accounts payable

220

Other current liabilities

66

Total outgoing flows

983

Interest rate and cross-currency swaps - incoming

26
220
66
10

416

911

239

Foreign exchange contracts - incoming

215

Total mitigation via incoming flows

454

Total liquidity risk 2017

529

10

416

911

Eurobonds

4

8

412

398

Financial leases

3

6

17

25

Other loans

1

Interest rate and cross-currency swaps - outgoing

0

Foreign exchange contracts - outgoing

206

Trade accounts payable

146

Other current liabilities

63

Total outgoing flows

423

Interest rate and cross-currency swaps - incoming

146
63
14

429

633

14

429

633

0

Foreign exchange contracts - incoming

206

Total mitigation via incoming flows

206

Total liquidity risk 2018

217

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

1

136

4.5 Financial instruments
In line with IFRS 9 and IFRS 13, the following categories of financial assets and financial liabilities can be distinguished.
PostNL
Financial instruments - assets
2017-2018, in € millions
Input
information
level (IFRS13)

Loans and
receivables

Other loans receivable

level 2

7

Other financial fixed assets

level 3

At 31 December

Accounts receivable

Notes

3.1.1

level 2

Foreign exchange contracts 1
Cash and cash equivalents

Other loans receivable

level 2

Other financial fixed assets

level 3
3.1.1

level 2

Foreign exchange contracts 1
Cash and cash equivalents

2

2

645

4.1

2

5

1,095

17

17

6

6

325

325

level 2

3

3

269

269

Total assets as per balance sheet 2018

600

5
436

436

1,088

Total
7

645

Total assets as per balance sheet 2017

Accounts receivable

Financial
assets at fair
value through
OCI
5

level 2
4.1

Derivatives
used for
hedging

3

17

620

1. Foreign exchange contracts are included in prepayments and accrued income in the statement of financial position.

Fair value represents the price that would be received when selling an asset in an orderly transaction between willing market
participants. For the recurring level 3 financial assets at fair value through OCI our valuations have historically been measured by
using an income approach with the most critical inputs operating income and discount rate. We applied the market approach as per
31 December 2018. This has resulted in an increase in fair value by €11 million, which has been accounted for through other
comprehensive income.
PostNL
Financial instruments - liabilities
2017-2018, in € millions

At 31 December
Long-term debt

Notes

Input
information
level (IFRS13)

Financial
liabilities
measured at
amortised
costs

4.1

level 1&2 2

400

level 2 1

220

4.1

level 1&2 2

199

26

3.1.2

level 2 1

65

1

66

884

27

911

Trade accounts payable
Short-term debt
Other current liabilities 3

Total liabilities as per balance sheet 2017
Long-term debt

Total liabilities as per balance sheet 2018

400
220
225

420

420

level 2 1

146

146

4.1

level 2 2

4

3.1.2

level 2 1

62

1

63

632

1

633

Trade accounts payable
Other current liabilities 3

Total

level 1&2 2

4.1

Short-term debt

Derivatives
used for
hedging

4

1. We consider the fair value equal to the book value as these items will be settled within short-term and therefore level 2.
2. Eurobonds level 1 and finance leases and derivatives level 2.
3. Other current liabilities include 'Payments from customers received in advance' for €52 million (2017: 44) and 'Other' for €11 million (2017: 22), refer to note 3.1.2.

All financial instruments are reported on a gross basis per instrument. Netting of financial instruments per contractual counterparty
will not have a material impact on the outstanding balances.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

137

Eurobonds
For the details on the outstanding eurobonds, see the table below.
PostNL
Outstanding eurobonds
2017-2018, in € millions
Nominal value

Costs/discount
to be
amortised

Hedge
accounting

Carrying value

Fair value

7.500% eurobond 2018 (£177 million)

223

0

Yes

199

207

1.000% eurobond 2024

400

2

No

398

400

623

2

597

607

400

2

398

389

400

2

398

389

Nominal value

Fixed/floating
interest

Hedge
accounting

Carrying value

Fair value

Total outstanding financial leases 2017

2

fixed

No

2

2

Total outstanding financial leases 2018

25

fixed

No

25

25

At 31 December

Total outstanding eurobonds 2017
1.000% eurobond 2024

Total outstanding eurobonds 2018

No

Financial leases
For the details on the outstanding financial leases, see the table below.
PostNL
Outstanding financial leases
2017-2018, in € millions
At 31 December

Derivatives - Cross-currency swaps
As at 31 December 2018, PostNL does not have cross-currency swaps outstanding. At 31 December 2017 PostNL had £177/€223
million cross-currency swap outstanding to hedge the foreign exchange exposure on the matured £177 million eurobond. These
swaps matured in August 2018.
For the details on the outstanding cross-currency swaps, see the table below.
PostNL
Outstanding swaps
2017-2018, in € millions
At 31 December
Total cross-currency swaps
2017

Nominal value

Forward
Starting

Currency

Outstanding

Pay

Receive

Hedge

Fair value

223

No

GBP/EUR

Yes

fixed

fixed

cash flow

(26)

Total cross-currency swaps
2018

The fair value of the outstanding long-term cross-currency swaps is recorded as a liability in ‘short-term debt' and includes credit
and debit valuation adjustments.
Derivatives - Foreign currency exchange contracts
For the details on the outstanding foreign exchange contracts, see the table below.
PostNL
Outstanding foreign exchange contracts
2017-2018, in € millions
At 31 December

Carrying value

Fair value

Nominal value

Hedge

Amount in
equity

2

2

135

fair value/
cashflow

1
0

Asset
Liability

1

1

80

fair value/
cashflow

3

3

154

fair value/
cashflow

0

52

fair value/
cashflow

0

Foreign exchange contracts 2017

Asset
Liability

1

Foreign exchange contracts 2018

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

138

1

The fair value of these outstanding foreign exchange hedges is recorded as a current asset in ‘prepayments and accrued income’ or
as a current liability in ‘total current borrowings’ and includes credit valuation adjustments.
In 2018, the total ineffective portion on all derivatives recognised in the income statement that arises from the use of fair value and
cash flow hedges amounted to €0 million (2017: €0 million).

4.6 Equity
Accounting policies
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issuance of new shares or options are
shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases PostNL’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any
directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes), is deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled, reissued
or disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly
attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, are included in equity.

Authorised share capital
Since 4 August 2011, the company’s authorised share capital amounts to €120 million, divided into 750,000,000 ordinary shares
and 750,000,000 preference shares B, both of €0.08 nominal value each.
Form of shares
The ordinary shares are in bearer or registered form. Ordinary shares in bearer form are represented by a global note held by the
Dutch clearing system Euroclear Netherlands and are transferable through Euroclear Netherlands’ book entry system. Ordinary
shares in registered form are transferred by means of a deed of transfer and PostNL’s written acknowledgement of the transfer.
PostNL does not have share certificates for ordinary shares represented by the global note. The preference shares B are in
registered form.
Issued share capital
At 31 December 2018, the company's issued share capital amounted to €38 million (2017: €36 million). The number of authorised,
issued and outstanding shares by class of share is as follows:
PostNL
Shares
2017-2018, number of shares
Before proposed appropriation of profit

2017

2018

Ordinary shares

750,000,000

750,000,000

Preference shares B

750,000,000

750,000,000

Authorised by class

Total authorised

1,500,000,000 1,500,000,000

Issued and outstanding
Per 1 January of the reported year
Issued for stock dividend
Issued under its incentive schemes

Per 31 December of the reported year

442,805,079

453,530,195

9,920,567

15,165,535

804,549

504,046

453,530,195

469,199,776

453,530,195

469,199,776

Issued and outstanding per 31 December by class
Ordinary shares
of which held by the company to cover share plans
of which a foundation incorporated by the company only holds the legal title
Preference shares B

0

0

1,625,690

1,667,191

0

0

Issuance/repurchase of shares to cover share plans
For all equity-settled and cash-settled share plans, PostNL intends to perform the settlement (or in case of cash-settled plans, fund
the settlement) by issuing new shares. As a result, the company issued 504,046 ordinary shares in 2018 (2017: 804,549 shares)
under its incentive schemes to 'Stichting Managementparticipatie PostNL' (Foundation Management Participation PostNL). The

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

139

company did not purchase any ordinary shares in 2018 (2017: 0 shares) to cover its obligations under the existing share plans. At
31 December 2018, the total number of shares held for this purpose was nil (2017: 0 shares). The company also held no ordinary
shares for cancellation at 31 December 2018 (2017: 0 shares).
Incentive scheme and Foundation Management Participation PostNL
For administration and compliance purposes, since May 2013 all shares belonging to PostNL employees under PostNL incentive
schemes are held by Stichting Managementparticipatie PostNL (Foundation Management Participation PostNL) on an omnibus
securities account with ING Bank, the Netherlands. Foundation Management Participation PostNL legally owns the shares, while
the beneficial ownership of the shares is vested in the employees, who are also entitled to dividend received by Foundation
Management Participation PostNL on their behalf. At 31 December 2018, the number of PostNL shares involved amounted
to 1,667,191 shares (2017: 1,625,690 shares) with a nominal value of €0.08 per share.
Foundation Continuity PostNL and preference shares B
Stichting Continuiteit PostNL (Foundation Continuity PostNL) was formed to safeguard the interests of PostNL, the undertaking
connected with PostNL and all parties involved. It does this by, among other things, preventing any influences that could threaten
PostNL’s continuity, independence and identity, as far as possible. Foundation Continuity PostNL is an independent legal entity
and is not owned or controlled by PostNL or any other legal person.
PostNL’s articles of association provide for protective preference shares B that can be issued to Foundation Continuity PostNL to
serve these interests. The preference shares B have a nominal value of €0.08 and have the same voting rights as PostNL’s ordinary
shares.
PostNL and Foundation Continuity PostNL have entered into a call option agreement, which enables Foundation Continuity PostNL
to acquire a number of preference shares B not exceeding the total issued amount of shares minus one and minus any shares
already issued to Foundation Continuity PostNL. The call option agreement is meant as a preventive countermeasure against
influences that might threaten the continuity, independence and identity of the company. Preference shares B will be outstanding
no longer than is strictly necessary. At 31 December 2018 no preference shares B were issued.
Additional paid-in capital
At 31 December 2018, additional paid-in capital of €160 million (2017: €160 million) is fully exempt for Dutch tax purposes to the
extent that this has been paid in by shareholders of the company.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

140

Section 5: Other notes
This section includes the notes not explained elsewhere in the financial statements. We disclose the following items in the
following order:
●

●

●

●

The components of the remuneration of the Supervisory Board, Board of Management and senior management.
The related party transactions and balances from trading relationships with joint ventures and unconsolidated companies
in which PostNL holds minority stakes.
Business combinations.
A summary of all remaining accounting polices.

We conclude this section with a description of subsequent events, where we provide information received between 31
December 2018 and the date of this report about material events applicable for understanding our year-end position.

5.1 Remuneration of Supervisory Board, Board of Management and senior management
Accounting policies
Equity-settled share-based compensation plans
PostNL operates a number of equity-settled share-based compensation plans, under which the employees receive
(conditional) shares of the Group for services rendered. The fair value of the employee services received, as measured at the
grant date, in exchange for the grant of the shares is recognised as an expense, with a corresponding increase in equity.
Non-market performance and service conditions are included in assumptions about the number of (conditional) shares that
are expected to vest. The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all the specified
vesting conditions are to be satisfied. In addition, for some share-based compensation plans, employees provide services in
advance of the grant date and therefore the grant date fair value is estimated for the purposes of recognising the expense
between service commencement date and grant date. At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of
the number of shares that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the
revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

141

Remuneration of members of the Supervisory Board
PostNL
Remuneration Supervisory Board
2017-2018, in €
Base compensation

Meeting fees 1

Total remuneration

Mr J. Nooitgedagt

36,236

7,500

43,736

Mr J. Wallage

47,047

10,500

57,547

Mr E. Blok

40,000

13,000

53,000

Mr J.W.M. Engel

40,000

14,000

54,000

Ms A.M. Jongerius

40,000

5,500

45,500

Ms T. Menssen

40,000

9,500

49,500

Mr F.H. Rövekamp

40,000

4,500

44,500

283,283

64,500

347,783

269,792

75,000

344,792

Total 2018
Total 2017

1. Payments of meeting fees relating to number of Supervisory Board committee meetings attended and number of meetings held.

The members of the Supervisory Board receive no compensation related to performance and/or equity and accrue no pension
rights with the company. The members of the Supervisory Board receive no severance payments in the event of termination.
PostNL does not grant loans, including mortgage loans, advance payments, guarantees and options or shares to any member of the
Supervisory Board.

Remuneration of members of the Board of Management
In 2018, the total remuneration of the Board of Management consisted of:
base salary,
variable remuneration,
other periodic compensation, and
pension costs.
●

●

●

●

PostNL
Remuneration Board of Management
2017-2018, in €
2018

2017
Herna
Verhagen

Former
member - Jan
Bos

Herna
Verhagen

Pim
Berendsen

Former
member - Jan
Bos 3

625,000

475,000

625,000

333,819

197,917

Accrued for short-term incentive

70,313

53,438

93,750

50,073

29,687

Accrued for long-term incentive

212,688

125,564

265,803

82,127

86,259

Other periodic compensation 1

199,123

146,914

196,006

77,039

129,198

20,485

21,739

24,110

23,854

10,606

1,127,609

822,655

1,204,669

566,913

453,668

Fixed remuneration
Base salary
Variable remuneration

Pension costs

2

Total remuneration

1. Other periodic compensation include company costs related to tax and social security, pension allowances, study costs, company car and other compensation. Also in
2018, Jan Bos received a jubilee payment (25 years in service) of one month’s gross salary.
2. Pension costs represent the service costs of the defined benefit scheme.
3. Jan Bos stepped down as CFO of PostNL on 17 April 2018 and acted as advisor to the Board of Management until 1 June 2018. As advisor to the Board of Management, no
changes were made to his contractual arrangements.

Base salary
As adopted at the 2013 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 16 April 2013, the annual base salaries for members of the
Board of Management were set at €625,000 for the CEO, and €475,000 for the CFO.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

142

Accrued for short-term incentive
The short-term incentive represents a potential reward of 37.5% of the annual base salary which is based on challenging but
achievable annual targets. A target can only contribute to the short-term incentive payout if it is fully met, which means there is no
stretch and no threshold on the annual targets. This short-term incentive plan rewards with a yearly cash payment reflecting the
realised achievements of targets. The focus areas for the short-term incentive are in line with the current remuneration policy and
represent a multi-stakeholder approach, with 60% financial targets and 40% non-financial targets.
PostNL accounts for the short-term incentive on the basis of the performance of the year reported. In 2018, an amount of €173,510
was accrued for. In accordance with the remuneration policy, this amount will be paid in cash in 2019. In 2018, an amount of
€123,750 was paid to the members of the Board of Management in relation to the short-term incentive of 2017.
Accrued for long-term incentive
In 2018, the total share-based payment costs relating to the long-term incentive for the members of the Board of Management
amounted to €434,189 (2017: €338,252), which related to the performance share plan as shown below.

Performance share plan
The Board of Management is awarded a long-term incentive, which represents a potential reward of 37.5% of the annual base
salary in the form of a performance share plan that contains three-year internal targets. The performance share plan contains the
following characteristics:
●

●

●

●

●

●

●

it is a conditional equity-settled share plan based on three-year internal targets,
shares are conditionally allocated to the Board of Management from 2013 onwards,
a conditional dividend equivalent is added to the conditional shares equal to the dividend rights of ordinary shares,
the conditional shares and their conditional dividend equivalents will vest after a performance period of three years,
vesting is subject to the extent to which the long-term targets supportive to the attainment of PostNL’s strategy
have been achieved,
if a member of the Board of Management leaves the company during the performance period due to circumstances involving
fraud or gross misbehaviour, any accrued rights on the long-term incentive plan will terminate and become void, and
if a member of the Board of Management leaves the company due to other reasons, a pro rata performance and time-based
vesting applies, unless decided otherwise by the Supervisory board.

In compliance with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, following a three-year performance period the retention period for
vested shares expires after two years or at termination of employment/service if this occurs earlier. For compliance reasons, a sale
of shares may not occur earlier than six months after termination of the employment/service. Any sale of shares for the purpose of
using the proceeds to pay for the tax due at vesting of these shares is exempted.

Settlement agreement Jan Bos
Jan Bos stepped down as CFO of PostNL on 17 april 2018 and acted as advisor to the Board of Management until 1 June 2018. No
changes were made to his contractual arrangements. No notice period and severance payment were applicable. Mr. Bos has a good
leaver status, whereby pro rate vesting of the LTI plans 2016-2018 and 2017-2019 have been applied regarding time and
performance. For his period of service in 2018 all regular remuneration elements have been applied time-based. Also the STI 2018
will be paid pro rata, based on actual performance over 2018, and will be payable in 2019 upon adoption of the 2018 annual
accounts by the general meeting of shareholders.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

143

PostNL
Performance share plan Board of Management
2018, number of shares

Herna Verhagen

Pim Berendsen

Former member
- Jan Bos

Dividend
shares 3

Settled during
2018

Forfeited
during 2018

Number
outstanding
31 Dec 2018

55,247

2,989

(57,073)

(1,163)

0

64,318

5,110

69,428

51,771

4,113

55,884

1,780

75,833

29,758

716

30,474

24,791

596

25,387

1,353

57,633

Year of grant

Vesting
period

Number
outstanding 1
Jan 2018

2015

7 May
2015 to 7
May 2018

2016

10 May
2016 to
10 May
2019

2017

9 May
2017 to 9
May 2020

2018

9 May
2018 to 9
May 2021

0

2016

10 May
2016 to
10 May
2019

0

2017

9 May
2017 to 9
May 2020

0

2018

9 May
2018 to 9
May 2021

0

2015

7 May
2015 to 7
May 2018

41,988

2,272

(43,376)

2016

10 May
2016 to
10 May
2019

24,781

1,341

(26,122)

2017

9 May
2017 to 9
May 2020

Total

Transfer
shares new
CFO 1

Granted
during 2018 2

74,053

56,280

4,689

242,794

54,549

130,333

255

(4,943)

20,525

(131,514)

0

(884)

0

0

(2,047)

314,639

1. The outstanding shares of Mr Berendsen as member of senior management are transferred to the outstanding shares of the Board of Management.
2. The number of conditional shares is based on 37.5% of the annual base salary divided by the five-day average Euronext Amsterdam share price of PostNL prior to the date
of publication of the Q1 2018 results (€3.165).
3. Dividend shares related to the final dividend 2017 and interim dividend 2018.

Note that the number of outstanding conditional shares does not represent the total number of shares held by each member of the
Board of Management, which include vested shares under PostNL's performance share plan and variable remuneration.
In 2018, an amount of €434,189 (2017: €338,252) was expensed for the cost of the performance shares of the Board of
Management. The costs are determined by multiplying the number of granted performance shares by the fair value of such shares
on the date of the grant (performance share plan (PSP) 2018-2020: €3.220 per share; PSP 2017-2019: €4.361 per share;
PSP 2016-2018: €3.619 per share; PSP 2015-2017: €4.387 per share) and by taking into account expected vesting percentages.
Other periodic compensation
Other periodic compensation included company costs related to tax and social security, pension allowances, study costs, company
car and other compensation.
Pension costs
The pension costs consist of the service costs for the reported year, net of employee contributions. The members of the Board of
Management are participants in a career average defined benefit scheme.
Loans, advance payments or guarantees
No loans, advance payments or guarantees were granted to members of the Board of Management in 2018 (2017: nil).

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

144

Remuneration of senior management
Short-term incentive
The short-term incentive for senior management represents a potential reward of a percentage of the annual base salary (the
percentage depending on the job level), which is based on challenging but achievable annual targets. Of the realised achievements
of targets 50% is paid in cash and 50% is paid in PostNL shares in the following year. Shares will be granted unconditionally and will
be delivered without restrictions or a restricted period, other than those defined in the PostNL insider trading policy.
The 50% of the short-term incentive settled in shares is accounted for as an equity-settled share-based payment. The
accrued share-based payment costs relating to this short-term incentive amounted to €1.2 million in 2018 (2017: €0.9 million). The
realised amounts will be granted and paid in PostNL shares in 2019.
Performance share plan
A selected group of members of senior management is awarded a long-term incentive, which represents a potential reward of
37.5% of the annual base salary in the form of a performance share plan that contains three-year internal targets. The company
sees the long-term incentive as part of the remuneration package for this selected group of senior management. It is aimed
particularly at aligning their interests with the long-term interests of the company and shareholders.
The performance share plan contains the same characteristics as the performance share plan of the Board of Management.
PostNL
Performance share plan senior management
2018, number of shares

Performance
share plan

Transfer
shares new
1
CFO

Settled during 2018

Forfeited
during 2018

Number
outstanding
31 Dec 2018

6,552

(125,055)

(2,549)

0

Vesting period

Number outstanding
1 Jan 2018

2015

7 May 2015 to
7 May 2018

121,052

2016

10 May 2016 to
10 May 2019

165,441

(29,758)

12,432

148,115

2017

9 May 2017 to
9 May 2020

149,210

(24,791)

11,264

135,683

2018

9 May 2018 to
9 May 2021

Total

Granted
2
during 2018

Dividend
3
shares

Year of grant

0

435,703

(54,549)

199,624

4,802

199,624

35,050

204,426

(125,055)

(2,549)

488,224

1. The outstanding shares of Mr Berendsen as member of senior management are transferred to the outstanding shares of the Board of Management.
2. The number of conditional shares is based on 37.5% of the annual base salary divided by the five-day average Euronext Amsterdam share price of PostNL prior to the date of publication of
the Q1 2018 results (€3.165).
3. Dividend shares related to the final dividend 2017 and interim dividend 2018.

In 2018, an amount of €636,626 (2017: €680,594) was expensed for the cost of the performance shares of senior management.
The costs are determined by multiplying the number of granted performance shares by the fair value of such shares on the date of
the grant (performance share plan (PSP) 2018-2020: €3.220 per share; PSP 2017-2019: €4.361 per share; PSP 2016-2018: €3.619
per share; PSP 2015-2017: €4.387 per share) and by taking into account expected vesting percentages.
Bonus/matching share plan
Since 2011, senior management have had the opportunity, on a voluntary basis, to participate in a bonus/matching plan. The
company sees the bonus/matching plan as part of the remuneration package for the members of senior management, particularly
aimed at aligning their interests with the long-term interests of the company and shareholders. At the discretion of the Supervisory
Board, grants are made on an annual basis in accordance with the bonus/matching plan which has been approved by the
Supervisory Board. The significant aspects of the plan are:
●

●

●

●

●

●

bonus shares are purchased by the participant using 25% of the gross (cash) variable remuneration and delivered upon the grant
of the right on matching shares,
the number of bonus shares is calculated by dividing 25% of an individual’s gross annual bonus relating to the preceding financial
year by the share price on Euronext Amsterdam on the date the grant is made,
the rights to matching shares are granted free of charge and as of 2014 the number of matching shares is equal to the number of
bonus shares (equity settled scheme),
the matching rights vest three years after the delivery of the bonus shares,
for each bonus share that is sold within three years, the associated right to one matching share lapses. If more than 50% of the
bonus shares are sold within three years, the entire right to matching shares lapses with immediate effect,
if a participant leaves the company for certain reasons (retirement, certain reorganisations, disability or death), the right to

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

145

●

matching shares will vest immediately and he/she can exercise his/her right pro rata, and
a participant loses the right to exercise his/her right on matching shares when he/she leaves the company for reasons other than
those mentioned.

The exercise of the rights to matching shares is subject to the PostNL insiders trading policy.
PostNL
Bonus/matching plan senior management
2018, number of shares

Matching rights

Year of grant

Vesting period

Number outstanding
1 Jan 2018

2015

7 May 2015 to
7 May 2018

28,610

(28,610)

2016

10 May 2016 to
10 May 2019

27,754

(380)

2017

9 May 2017 to
9 May 2020

29,849

2018

9 May 2018 to
9 May 2021

Total

Granted
during 2018

0

10,055

86,213

10,055

Settled during
2018

(28,990)

Forfeited
during 2018

Number outstanding
31 Dec 2018
0

(1,198)

26,176

(774)

29,075

(248)

9,807

(2,220)

65,058

In 2018, an amount of €83,310 (2017: €109,593) was expensed for the cost of the equity-settled bonus/matching shares. The costs
are determined by multiplying the number of granted matching shares by the fair value of such shares on the date of the grant
(2018: €3.220 per share; 2017: €4.361 per share; 2016: €3.619 per share; 2015: €4.387 per share) and by taking into account
expected vesting percentages.
Financing of equity-settled plans
For all equity-settled and cash-settled share plans, PostNL intends to perform the settlement (or in case of cash-settled plans, fund
the settlement) via the issuance of new shares. Accordingly, the company does not need to actively hedge the risk in connection
with its obligations. As a result, the company did not purchase any additional shares in 2018 (2017: 0) to cover its obligations under
the existing share plans. As at 31 December 2018, the total number of shares held for this purpose was nil (2017: 0).

5.2 Related party transactions and balances
The PostNL Group companies have trading relationships with a number of joint ventures as well as with companies in which PostNL
holds minority stakes. In some cases, there are contractual arrangements in place under which PostNL companies source supplies
from such undertakings, or such undertakings source supplies from PostNL. Transactions are carried out at arm's length.
During 2018, sales of PostNL to joint ventures and associates amounted to €0 million (2017: €2 million). Purchases of PostNL from
joint ventures and associates amounted to €0 million (2017: €0 million). The net amounts due from the joint ventures and
associates amounted to €0 million (2017: €0 million).
Related party transactions with PostNL’s pension fund are presented in note 3.4 to the consolidated financial statements.
PostNL considers the members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board as key management personnel as defined by
IAS 24. For disclosure on related party transactions with the Board of Management and Supervisory Board, see note 5.1 to the
consolidated financial statements.

5.3 Business combinations
In 2018, PostNL did not acquire new business by the acquisition of the shares of other entities.

5.4 Summary of all other accounting policies
Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the financial figures of PostNL N.V. and its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
and have been prepared using uniform accounting policies for like transactions and other events in similar circumstances. All
significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated on consolidation. A complete list of subsidiaries,
associates and joint ventures included in PostNL’s consolidated financial statements is filed for public review at the Chamber of
Commerce in The Hague. This list has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of article 379 (1) and article 414 of book 2 of
the Dutch Civil Code.
Subsidiaries
A subsidiary is an entity controlled directly or indirectly by PostNL N.V. Control is defined as the power to govern the financial and

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

146

operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are
currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether PostNL controls another entity. Subsidiaries are fully
consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to PostNL and are de-consolidated from the date on which control
ceases.
PostNL uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries. The consideration of an acquisition
is measured at the fair value of the assets transferred, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of
exchange. The consideration transferred also includes the fair value arising from contingent consideration arrangements.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at
their fair values on the acquisition date irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling interest. Acquisition-related costs are
expensed as incurred.
The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of PostNL’s share of the identifiable net assets of the subsidiary is
recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of PostNL’s share of the net assets of the subsidiary
acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group. For purchases from
non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of
net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in
equity.
When the Group ceases to have control or significant influence, any retained interest in the entity is re-measured to its fair value,
with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of
subsequent accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts
previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly
disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are
recycled to profit or loss.
The non-controlling interest is initially measured at the proportion of the non-controlling interest in the recognised net fair value of
the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Losses applicable to the non-controlling interest in excess of the non-controlling
interest in the subsidiary’s equity are allocated against PostNL’s interests, except to the extent that the non-controlling interest has
a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
Functional currency and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary
environment in which the entity operates ('the functional currency'). These consolidated financial statements are presented in
euros, which is PostNL’s functional and presentation currency.
Foreign currency transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the
transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency using year-end exchange
rates. Foreign currency exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of foreign currency transactions and balances and
from the translation at year-end exchange rates are recognised in the income statement except for qualifying cash flow hedges and
qualifying net investment hedges that are directly recognised in other comprehensive income.
Foreign operations
The results and financial position of all Group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) that have a
functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows:
assets and liabilities are translated at the closing exchange rates,
income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates, and
the resulting exchange rate differences based on the different ways of translating between the balance sheet and the income
statement are recognised as a separate component of equity (translation reserve).
●

●

●

Foreign currency exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and
other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to the translation reserve. When a foreign
operation is sold, such exchange differences are recycled in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on the sale.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

147

Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an indication that the asset might
be impaired. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels at which there are separately
identifiable cash flows, being the cash-generating units (CGUs). If the recoverable value of the CGU is less than its carrying amount,
the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of the goodwill allocated to the CGU and then pro rata to other
assets of the CGU. The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. In assessing the
value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of money and the asset-specific risks. For the purpose of assessing impairment, corporate
assets are allocated to specific CGUs before impairment testing. The allocation of the corporate assets is based on the contribution
of those assets to the future cash flows of the CGU under review. Impairment losses recognised for goodwill are not reversed in a
subsequent period.
Impairment of investments in joint ventures and associates
PostNL assesses on each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that an investment in a joint venture or associate
may need to be impaired. If the recoverable value of the investment is less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced
to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. In assessing
the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects
current market assessments of the time value of money and the asset-specific risks. The fair value less costs of disposal of a joint
venture or associate is reviewed based on observable publicly available market data. Possible impairment charges may be reversed
if there is an indication that the impairment no longer exists or has been reduced.
Impairment of finite-lived intangible assets and property, plant and equipment
At each balance sheet date, PostNL reviews its finite-lived intangible assets and property, plant and equipment for an indication of
impairment. If any indication exists, the recoverable amount of the assets is estimated. The recoverable amount is defined as the
higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less
than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount. Any impairment loss is recognised
immediately in the income statement. Impairment losses recognised in prior periods shall be reversed only if there has been a
change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. The
recoverable amount shall not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been
recognised in previous periods. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Profit sharing
The company recognises a liability and an expense for profit-sharing by employees, based on a calculation that takes into
consideration quantitative and qualitative performance measures in accordance with contractual arrangements.
Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to PostNL’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the year in which the
dividends are approved by the shareholders. If PostNL offers its shareholders (the choice of) dividends in additional shares, the
additionally issued shares are recognised at their nominal amount.

5.5 Subsequent events
On 25 February 2019, we have made a joint announcement with Sandd regarding our intention to create one strong national postal
network in the Netherlands. PostNL and Sandd have filed a request for approval with the regulator, which is the formal start of this
process. The transaction appreciates Sandd at an enterprise value of €130m and provides for the purchase of all (100%) Sandd
shares. The acquisition will be funded through cash on hand and external funding. The acquisition is conditional on approval of the
combination of Sandd and PostNL by the authorities, consultation with the relevant works councils and trade unions, and
agreement on the final transaction documentation.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

148

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

149

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

150

Corporate primary statements
PostNL N.V.
Corporate income statement
2017-2018, in € millions
Year ended at 31 December

Notes

2017

2018

6.2.1

104

73

Impairment Mail investments

6.2.2

(79)

(164)

Salaries, pensions and social security contributions

6.2.3

14

(2)

Dividend income

1

Other income

Other operating expenses
Total operating expenses

Operating income
Interest and similar income
Interest and similar expenses
Net financial expense

6.2.4

Profit/(loss) before income taxes
Income taxes

6.2.5

Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to shareholders

3

2

(62)

(164)

42

(90)

1

0

(35)

(17)

(34)

(17)

8

(107)

6

5

14

(102)

PostNL N.V.
Corporate statement of comprehensive income
2017-2018, in € millions
Year ended at 31 December

Notes

Profit for the year attributable to shareholders

2017

2018

14

(102)

Actuarial gains/(losses) pensions, net of tax

6.4.2

21

25

Pension asset ceiling/minimum funding requirement, net of tax

6.4.2

(10)

(2)

11

23

Other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to the income statement

1

2

1

2

Total other comprehensive income for the year

12

25

Total comprehensive income for the year

26

(77)

Gains/(losses) on cashflow hedges, net of tax
Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to the income statement

The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

151

PostNL N.V.
Corporate statement of cash flows
2017-2018, in € millions
Year ended at 31 December

Notes

Profit/(loss) before income taxes

2017

2018

8

(107)

79

164

Adjustments for:
Impairment Mail investments
Share-based payments
Dividend income

0

3

(104)

(73)

Interest and similar income

(1)

0

Interest and similar expenses

35

17

Investment income

(70)

(56)

Pension liabilities

(20)

(4)

Other provisions

(3)

(3)

Changes in provisions

(23)

(7)

Changes in working capital

(3)

(4)

Cash used in operations

(9)

(7)

Interest paid

(32)

(19)

2

8

(39)

(18)

104

73

Income taxes received/(paid)

Net cash used in operating activities

6.3.1

Dividend received

1

0

105

73

Dividends paid

(40)

(63)

Financing related to Group companies

(97)

206

Proceeds from long-term borrowings

398

Interest received

Net cash from investing activities

6.3.2

Repayments of short-term borrowings

Net cash used in financing activities

6.3.3

Total change in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
Total change in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year

The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

152

(328)

(198)

(67)

(55)

(1)

0

1

0

(1)

0

0

0

PostNL N.V.
Corporate statement of financial position
2017-2018, in € millions
At 31 December
Before proposed appropriation of profit
Assets
Investments in Mail
Deferred tax assets

Notes

2017

2018

6.4.1

3,239

3,075

6.2.5

0

0

3,239

3,075

Total non-current assets
Accounts receivable from Group companies

6.4.3

188
3

Other accounts receivable
Income tax receivable

4

Cash and cash equivalents

Total current assets
Total assets
Equity and liabilities
Issued share capital

0

0

192

3

3,431

3,078

36

38

Additional paid-in capital

160

160

Hedge reserves

(2)

Revaluation reserve investments in Mail

2,332

2,168

Other reserves

205

345

Retained earnings

(1)

(118)

2,593

Total shareholders' equity

6.3.4

2,730

Provision for pension liabilities

6.4.2

65

33

Eurobonds

6.4.4

398

398

Other provisions

Total non-current liabilities

3

2

466

433
44

Accounts payable to Group companies

6.4.3

26

Eurobonds

6.4.4

199
7

Income tax payable
Other current liabilities

Total current liabilities
Total equity and liabilities

10

1

235

52

3,431

3,078

PostNL N.V.
Corporate statement of changes in equity
2017-2018, in € millions

Balance at 31 Dec 2016

Issued share
capital

Additional
paid-in capital

Hedge
reserves

Revaluation
reserve
investments
in Mail

36

157

(3)

2,411

Total comprehensive income

1

Appropriation of net income

Other
reserves

Retained
earnings

Total
shareholders'
equity

(517)

658

2,742

11

14

26

633

(633)

0

(25)

(25)

(15)

(15)

Final dividend previous year
Interim dividend current year
Share-based compensation
Reduction revaluation reserve

Balance at 31 Dec 2017

(1)

2

(79)

79

0

2,332

205

(1)

2,730

23

(102)

(77)

(48)

48

0

(47)

(47)

(16)

(16)

3

36

160

(2)

Total comprehensive income

2

Appropriation of net income
Final dividend previous year

1

(1)

Interim dividend current year

1

(1)

Share-based compensation

2

Reduction revaluation reserve

Balance at 31 Dec 2018

38

160

0

The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

3

1

153

(164)

164

2,168

345

0

(118)

2,593

Section 6: Corporate financial statements
This section sets out the results and performance of the corporate company PostNL N.V. Similar to the approach applied in
the consolidated financial statements, we have structured the disclosures and analyses in this section along the following
categories:
Basis of preparation
Result of the year
Balance sheet information
Other notes
●

●

●

●

As a holding company for the Group companies of the PostNL Group, dividend received from these investments reflects the
basic earnings included in the result for the year.
The other notes include a reconciliation between corporate and consolidated equity and comprehensive income, and a
description of subsequent events, where we provide information received between 31 December 2018 and the date of this
report about material events applicable for understanding our year-end position.
We conclude this section with the dividend proposal for 2018 of the Board of Management and the appropriation of profit.

6.1 Basis of preparation

General information and description of the business
PostNL N.V. (hereafter referred to as ‘the company’) is a public limited liability company with its registered seat and head office at
Prinses Beatrixlaan 23, 2595 AK, 's-Gravenhage, the Netherlands. The Chamber of Commerce number is 27124700.
The company’s principal activity is acting as a holding company for the Group companies of the PostNL Group (‘the Group’) that
provide businesses and consumers in the Benelux, Germany and Italy with an extensive range of services for their mail needs.
Through our international sales network Spring, we connect local businesses around the world to consumers globally. The company
is the ultimate parent company of the Group.
The corporate financial statements were authorised for issue by PostNL’s Board of Management and Supervisory Board on 25
February 2019 and are subject to adoption at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 16 April 2019.

Summary of significant accounting policies
The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these corporate financial statements are set out below. These
policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. All amounts included in the financial
statements are presented in euros, unless stated otherwise.

Accounting principles applied
The corporate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted
by the European Union (IFRS-EU) and Dutch law. IFRS-EU includes the application of International Accounting Standards (IAS),
related interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) and interpretations of the
Standing Interpretations Committee (SIC), issued and effective, or issued and adopted early, as at 31 December 2018.

Basis of measurement
In the corporate financial statements, the same accounting principles have been applied as set out in the notes to the consolidated
financial statements, except for the valuation of the investments as presented under financial fixed assets in the corporate financial
statements. These policies have been consistently applied to all years presented.
In the corporate financial statements, the Mail investments are recorded at cost less impairments (deemed cost upon adoption of
IFRS-EU). In the corporate statement of income, dividend received from the investments is recorded as dividend income. Due to this
application, the corporate equity and net result are not equal to the consolidated equity and net result. A reconciliation for total
shareholders’ equity and total comprehensive income is presented in note 6.5 to the corporate financial statements.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

154

Changes in accounting policies and disclosures
For new and amended standards we refer to the descriptions included in the ‘Changes in accounting policies and disclosures' in the
notes to the consolidated financial statements. The company has assessed the impact on the corporate financial statements. None
of these is expected to have a significant effect on the corporate financial statements.

Functional and presentation currency
The corporate financial statements are presented in euros, the company’s functional currency.

Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of the corporate financial statements in conformity with IFRS-EU requires management to exercise judgements
and make estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the company's accounting policies and the reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the
period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or
complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the corporate financial statements are disclosed in the
note ‘Critical accounting estimates and judgements' to the consolidated financial statements.
Key accounting estimates and judgements affecting the assessment and measurement of impairment are included in note 6.4.1 to
the corporate financial statements.

Share-based payments
Equity-settled share-based compensation plans
PostNL operates a number of equity-settled share-based compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from
employees as consideration for (conditional) shares of the Group. For the company's accounting policies on equity-settled
share-based compensation plans, we refer to note 5.1 of the consolidated financial statements.
Specifically for PostNL N.V., the grant by the company of shares to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is
treated as a capital contribution. The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is
recognised over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity in
the parent entity accounts.

Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the corporate financial statements, in the period
in which the dividends are approved by the company’s shareholders.

6.2 Result for the year
6.2.1 Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. The dividend income from the company’s
subsidiaries for 2018 was €73 million (2017: €104 million).

6.2.2 Impairment Mail investments
In 2018, an impairment of €164 million on the company’s investments in Mail was accounted for (2017: €79 million). Reference is
made to note 6.4.1 to the corporate financial statements.

6.2.3 Salaries, pensions and social security contributions
In 2018, salaries, pensions and social security contributions amounted to €2 million (2017: €14 million income). In accordance with
IAS 19.41, the net defined benefit cost for the company’s pension plans shall be recognised in the corporate financial statements.
For PostNL, the contributions charged to other Group companies offset the pension expense incurred, resulting in a limited amount
of salaries, pensions and social security contributions over the year. For further information on defined benefit pension costs, see
note 6.4.2 to the corporate financial statements. PostNL N.V. does not have any employees other than the Board of Management.

6.2.4 Net financial expense/(income)
PostNL has financing relationships with both external banks and with PostNL companies, mainly with PostNL Finance B.V. As a
result, PostNL records both external interest income and expenses from financial institutions and from PostNL Finance B.V.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

155

PostNL N.V.
Net financial expense/(income)
2017-2018, in € millions
Year ended at 31 December

2017

2018

32

14

Interest on net defined benefit pension liabilities

2

2

Other interest and similar expense

1

1

Interest and similar expense

35

17

Other interest and similar income

(1)

0

Net financial expense/(income)

34

17

Interest expenses on long-term borrowings

In 2018, interest expenses on long-term borrowings decreased as a result of the repayment of bonds in 2017 and 2018. Reference
is made to note 4.1 to the consolidated financial statements.

6.2.5 Income taxes
Accounting policies
The company is tax-resident in the Netherlands. The tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is
recognised in the statement of income, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in other
comprehensive income.
The amount of income tax included in the statement of income is determined in accordance with the rules established by the
tax authorities in the Netherlands, based on which income taxes are payable or recoverable.

PostNL N.V.
Corporate income taxes
2017-2018, in € millions
Year ended at 31 December

2017

2018

Current tax expense

(3)

3

Changes in deferred taxes

(3)

(8)

Total income taxes

(6)

(5)

Income taxes paid/(received)

(2)

(8)

The difference between the total income taxes in the income statement and the current tax expense is due to temporary
differences. These differences are recognised as deferred tax assets or deferred tax liabilities.
PostNL N.V.
Corporate effective income tax rate
2017-2018, in %
Year ended at 31 December
Dutch statutory income tax rate

2017

2018

25.0

25.0

1.1

(0.1)

246.9

(38.3)

(335.5)

17.5

Tax effects of:
Non and partly deductible costs
Non deductible impairments
Exempt income
Other

Effective income tax rate

(12.5)

0.6

(75.0)

4.7

In 2018, the income taxes of €(5) million (2017: €(6) million) on the result before income taxes of €(107) million (2017: €8 million),
resulted in an effective income tax rate of 4.7% (2017: (75.0)%). Adjusted for the tax-exempt dividend income of €73 million (2017:
€104 million) and the non deductible impairment of €164 million (2017: €79 million), the result before income taxes would have
been €(16) million (2017: €(17) million), which with income taxes unchanged at €(5) million (2017: €(6) million) would have
resulted in an effective income tax rate of 31.3% (2017: 35.3%).

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

156

The following table shows the movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities.
PostNL N.V.
Statement of changes corporate deferred tax assets
2017-2018, in € millions
Deferred tax assets at 31 December 2016
Changes via other comprehensive income

Provisions

Other

0

1

Total
1
(4)

(4)

Changes via income statement

4

(1)

3

Deferred tax assets at 31 December 2017

0

0

0

Changes via other comprehensive income

(8)

(8)

Changes via income statement

8

Deferred tax assets at 31 December 2018

0

8

0

0

Of the deferred tax assets as at 31 December 2018, €0 million (2017: €0 million) is to be settled within 12 months and €0 million
(2017: €0 million) is to be settled after 12 months.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented net in the balance sheet if the company has a legally enforceable right to offset
current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxation authority.

6.3 Cash flow performance and equity development
6.3.1 Net cash from/(used in) operating activities
The decrease in net cash used in operating activities from €(39) million in 2017 to €(18) million in 2018 mainly related to the
change in interest paid and income taxes received. In 2018, the total cash outflow for interest paid of €19 million (2017: €32
million) mainly related to interest on PostNL’s long-term borrowings. In 2018, the company received income taxes totalling €8
million (2017: €2 million received) which include settlements relating to prior years and internal settlements with Group companies
within the PostNL fiscal unity.

6.3.2 Net cash from investing activities
In 2018, net cash from investing activities amounted to €73 million (2017: €105 million). The total cash inflow from dividend
received from the company's subsidiaries was €73 million (2017: €104 million).

6.3.3 Net cash used in financing activities
In 2018, the net cash used in financing activities of €55 million (2017: €67 million) mainly related to the final 2017 cash dividend
paid of €47 million (2017: final 2016 cash dividend: €25 million), interim 2018 cash dividend paid of €16 million (2017: interim 2017
cash dividend: €15 million), the repayment of a eurobond of €198 million (2017: €328 million) and financing related to Group
companies of €206 million (2017: €(97) million). Financing related to Group companies mainly relates to intercompany financing
of PostNL by PostNL Finance B.V. and included the repayment of €25 million of the intercompany cross-currency swap relating to
the eurobond. In 2017, the net cash used in financing activities included the proceeds of a new eurobond of €398 million.

6.3.4 Equity
As at 31 December 2018, equity amounts to €2,593 million (2017: €2,730 million). For the disclosure on issued share capital,
additional paid-in capital and the hedge reserve, see notes 2.4 and 4.6 to the consolidated financial statements. The tax impact on
the cash flow hedges included in the hedge reserve at 31 December 2018 is €0 million (2017: €0 million).
The revaluation reserve investments in Mail and the hedge reserve are legal reserves and are restricted for distribution.
As at 31 December 2018, the revaluation reserve of €2,168 million (2017: €2,332 million) related to the applied deemed cost
approach for the investments in Mail as of 1 January 2010, partly offset by the net recorded impairment charges of €414 million.
During 2018, the other reserves increased to €345 million from €205 million, mainly due to a reclassification from the revaluation
reserve of €164 million and a positive pension effect within other comprehensive income of €23 million, partly offset by the
appropriation of net income for 2017 of €(48) million.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

157

6.4 Corporate statement of financial position
6.4.1 Investments in Mail
Accounting policies
Investments in subsidiaries and associated companies
Investments in subsidiaries and associated companies are stated at cost, less impairment. Dividend income from the
company’s subsidiaries and associated companies is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Impairment of investments in subsidiaries
At each balance sheet date, the company reviews whether there is an indication that its investments in subsidiaries might be
impaired.
An indication may include management’s downward adjustment of the strategic plan or other areas where observable data
indicates a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows. These determinations require significant judgement. In
making this judgement, management evaluates, among other factors, the financial performance of and business outlook for
its investments, including factors such as industry and sector performance, changes in technology and operational and
financing cash flow.
If any indication for impairment exists, the recoverable amount of the investments is estimated. The recoverable amount is
defined as the higher of an investment’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. If the recoverable amount of an
investment is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the investment is reduced to its
recoverable amount. Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the statement of income.
The investments’ fair value less costs of disposal represents the best estimate of the amount the company would receive if it
sold its investments. The fair value of each investment has been estimated on the basis of the present value of future cash
flows, taking into account costs of disposal. The determination of the investment’s value in use is based on calculations using
pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a nine-year period. Cash flows
beyond the nine-year period are extrapolated using estimated growth rates.
Impairment losses recognised in prior periods shall be reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates or external
market information used to determine the investment’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
The recoverable amount shall not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss
been recognised in prior years.

The movement in the Investments in Mail is as follows:
PostNL N.V.
Investments in Mail
2017-2018, in € millions

Balance at 1 January
Additions to capital

2017

2018

3,316

3,239

2

Impairment

Balance at 31 December

(79)

(164)

3,239

3,075

The subsidiary undertakings of the company as at 31 December 2018, and the company’s percentage interest, are set out below.
PostNL N.V.
Breakdown corporate investments
2018
Name of direct subsidiairy
PostNL Holding B.V.

Country of
incorporation

Ownership %

Netherlands

100%

A complete list of investments in subsidiaries, associated companies and jointly-controlled entities will be attached to the
company’s Annual Report made available to the Chamber of Commerce.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

158

A detailed review has been performed of the recoverability of the Mail investments. The recoverable value of each investment is the
higher of the value in use and fair value less costs of disposal. The recoverable value is determined based on the value in use as this
was higher than the fair value less costs of disposal at year end 2018. The value in use has been estimated on the basis of the
present value of future cash flows. For all investments, the estimated future cash flows are based on a nine-year forecast and
business plans, as management considers these forecasts reliable based on past experience.
The estimated future cash flows are derived from the most recent strategic planning approved by management, including inherent
uncertainties like future volume developments, efficiency measures and the impact of regulatory decisions and developments. The
applied growth rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rates on the related operation and market. The company has
determined the budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its expectations for market development. The weighted
average growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts included in industry reports. The pre-tax discount rates in the
investments' valuations vary from 10% to 15% (2017: 9% to 13%).
Key assumptions used to determine the recoverable values for the investments of the company are the following:
maturity of the underlying market, market share and volume development in order to determine the revenue mix and growth rate,
level of operating income largely impacted by revenue and cost development, taking into account the nature of the underlying
costs and potential economies of scale,
level of capital expenditure in network-related assets, and
discount rate to be applied following the nature of the underlying cash flows and foreign currency and inflation-related risks.
●

●

●

●

As the Mail investments are vulnerable to changes in the discount rate and changes in operating income, a sensitivity analysis has
been performed for the Mail investments. The sensitivity analysis included the impact of the following items which are considered
to be most critical when determining the recoverable value:
an increase or decrease in the discount rate of 0.5%, and
an increase or decrease in operating income of 5%.
●

●

If the discount rate were to change by 0.5%, this would impact the Mail investments by around €240 million (2017: €245 million). A
change in operating income of 5% would impact the Mail investments by around €80 million (2017: €130 million).
The detailed review of the value of the Mail investments resulted in the recoverable value being €164 million lower than their
carrying value. The recoverable value of the continuing operations was derived from the 2018 strategic planning, taking into
account uncertainties relating to volume and margin developments, efficiency measures and investments necessary to keep up
with market dynamics, and the impact of regulation within Mail in the Netherlands. The valuation of the Mail investments includes
Nexive and Postcon, our discontinued operations, which value is based on fair value less costs to sell at year-end 2018. The value
decrease mainly followed from reduced business plans within Mail in the Netherlands negatively impacted by a delay in costs
savings, reduced business plans within Spring impacted by increased fierce competition and a negatively impacted discontinued
operations’ value, which for a large part was offset by improved business plans within Parcels reflecting a further increase in volume
growth driving improved operating income. The value decrease related to Mail in the Netherlands was offset by a change in the
method to calculate our non-deductible VAT. Management’s best estimate of this change has been included in the valuation. Based
on the detailed review, management concluded that an impairment of €164 million was present for the Mail investments.
Consequently, management recorded an impairment charge of €164 million in 2018 (2017: €79 million). Within equity, the
revaluation reserve associated with the initial revaluation of the Mail investments has been lowered by the impairment charge
amount.
In 2017, the additions to capital of €2 million represented the company's compensation for equity-settled share-based payments
to the investments' employees. As the company granted its shares directly to its investments' employees without charging its
investments, the company recognised, in line with IFRS, the increase in the investments as a capital contribution.

6.4.2 Provisions for pension liabilities
Accounting policies
For the accounting policies on pension liabilities, reference is made to note 3.4 to the consolidated financial statements.

The company is the sponsoring employer of the main Dutch pension plan, which is externally funded in a separate pension fund
and cover the majority of PostNL’s employees in the Netherlands.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

159

In accordance with IAS 19.41, PostNL recognises the net defined benefit cost in the corporate financial statements of the company.
The relevant Group companies recognise the costs equal to the contributions payable for the period in their financial statements. In
its corporate financial statements, PostNL recognises the contributions received from the relevant Group companies as a benefit
that offsets the defined benefit pension expense. The impact of the contributions is represented as participant contributions in the
following table.
For the company, the contributions received from the relevant Group companies almost offset the pension expense. As a result, the
corporate financial statements record a defined benefit pension expense of €1 million (2017: income of €15 million), whereas the
consolidated financial statements record defined benefit pension expenses of €122 million (2017: €93 million).
The following table reconciles the opening and closing balances of the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the fair
value of plan assets, the funded status and the employer pension income for the sponsored pension plan of the company.
PostNL N.V.
Detailed overview of changes in corporate defined benefit plans
2017-2018, in € millions
2017

2018

Change in benefit obligation
(8,224)

(8,528)

Service costs

(97)

(114)

Interest costs

(148)

(171)

Benefit obligation at beginning of year

Past service costs

(3)

Other movements
Actuarial (losses)/gains
Benefits paid
Benefit obligation at end of year

(28)

(25)

(254)

268

226

230

(8,528)

(8,340)

8,159

8,511

146

169

Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year
Assumed return on plan assets
Other movements
Participants contributions
Employer contributions
Other costs
Actuarial (losses)/gains
Benefits paid
Fair value of plan assets at end of year

34

29

121

121

3

3

(9)

(9)

283

(234)

(226)

(230)

8,511

8,360

(65)

(17)

Change in funded status
Funded status at the beginning of year
Operating expenses (incl. participants contributions)

17

1

Interest (expenses)/income

(1)

(1)

Employer contributions

3

3

Actuarial (losses)/gains

29

34

Funded status at end of year

(17)

20
(20)

Impact of pension asset ceiling
Impact of minimum funding requirement
Netted pension liabilities

(48)

(33)

(65)

(33)

Components of employer pension expenses
(97)

(114)

Interest (expenses)/income

(2)

(2)

Past service costs

(3)

Service costs

Other costs

(4)

(6)

Participants contributions

121

121

15

(1)

Discount rate

2.0%

1.8%

Rate of benefit increases

1.5%

1.1%

21.2/23.5

21.3/23.2

Post-employment benefit income/(expenses)
Weighted average assumptions as at 31 December

Life expectancy 65 year old men/women (in years)

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

160

6.4.3 Accounts receivable from Group companies / Accounts payable to Group companies
As at 31 December 2018, accounts receivable from Group companies amounted to €0 million (2017: €188 million, of which €187
million related to PostNL Finance B.V.). Accounts payable to Group companies amounted to €44 million (2017: €26 million) and
related to a payable to PostNL Finance B.V. As at 31 December 2017, the accounts payable to Group companies related to €26
million outstanding intercompany cross-currency swaps from PostNL Finance B.V. The fair value of the accounts receivable from
and payable to Group companies approximated the carrying value, due to the short-term nature.

6.4.4 Eurobonds
As at 31 December 2018, the eurobonds amounted to €398 million non-current (2017: €398 million) and €0 million current (2017:
€199 million). For the disclosure on the eurobonds, reference is made to notes 4.1 and 4.5 to the consolidated financial statements.
In 2018, there are no non-cash changes in the total debt including the accounts receivable from and accounts payable to Group
companies.

6.5 Other notes

Reconciliation corporate and consolidated equity and comprehensive income
PostNL N.V.
Consolidated to corporate equity and total comprehensive income
2017-2018, in € millions
Year ended at 31 December

Consolidated: Equity and total comprehensive income
Reconciliation items previous years

2017
Equity

Income

2018
Equity

Income

34

151

46

72

2,696

2,821

Impairment Mail investments

(79)

(79)

(164)

Results from investments

(55)

(55)

29

29

9

9

(14)

(14)

2,696

(125)

2,547

(149)

2,730

26

2,593

(77)

Other comprehensive income (CTA/hedges/associates/pensions)

(164)

Other direct equity movements
Total reconciliation items

Corporate: Shareholders' equity and total comprehensive income

The differences between total shareholders’ equity and total comprehensive income according to the IFRS-EU consolidated
financial statements and the corporate financial statements under IFRS-EU in general relate to the accounting of the Mail
investments at cost less impairments (deemed cost upon adoption of IFRS-EU) in the corporate financial statements and
subsequent (reversal of) impairments.
The reconciling items for equity and income are further detailed below.
Reconciliation items
The 'reconciliation items previous years' of €2,696 million in 2018 relate to the difference between the consolidated equity as at 31
December 2017 of €34 million and the corporate equity of €2,730 million at that date.
For details of the reversal of the impairment of the Mail investments recognised in the corporate financial statements in 2018, see
note 6.4.1 to the corporate financial statements.
The 2018 results from investments were €29 million higher in the corporate financial statements and can be calculated from the
result from the corporate income statement of €(102) million, plus the impairment of the Mail investments of €164 million, minus
the result from the consolidated income statement of €33 million. The difference relates to the difference between the dividend
income and the result from the Mail investments. The 2017 results from investments were €55 million lower in the corporate
financial statements and can be calculated from the result from the corporate income statement of €14 million, plus the
impairment of the Mail investments of €79 million, minus the result from the consolidated income statement of €148 million. The
difference relates to the difference between the dividend income and the result from the Mail investments.
The reconciliation item ‘Other comprehensive income' represents hedge and currency translation adjustments and adjustments for
actuarial gains/(losses) which were recognised in the consolidated financial statements but not in the corporate financial
statements as the investments are stated at cost. It also represents other comprehensive income from the change in value of
financial assets at fair value through OCI that was recognised in the consolidated financial statements but not in the corporate
financial statements.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

161

The 2018 difference in other comprehensive income of €(14) million included €7 million of actuarial gains on pensions, €11 million
of the change in value of financial assets at fair value through OCI and €(4) million other items. The 2017 difference in other
comprehensive income of €9 million included €(8) million of actuarial gains on pensions, €(3) million of currency translation
adjustments related to movements in exchange rate differences on converting foreign subsidiaries and €2 million other items.

Commitments and contingencies
Declaration of joint and several liability
At 31 December 2018, the company issued a declaration of joint and several liability for some of its Group companies in compliance
with article 403, book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Those Group companies are:
PostNL N.V.
Declaration of joint and several liability
2018
Cendris Customer Contact B.V.

PostNL E-commerce Services B.V.

DM Productions B.V.

PostNL Finance B.V.

G3 Worldwide Mail N.V.

PostNL Holding B.V.

Koninklijke PostNL B.V.

PostNL Pakketten Benelux B.V.

Logistics Solutions B.V.

PostNL Pakketten Holding B.V.

Netwerk VSP B.V.

PostNL Real Estate B.V.

PostNL Communicatie Services B.V.

PostNL TGN B.V.

PostNL Data Solutions B.V.

PostNL Transport B.V.

Fiscal unity in the Netherlands
The company forms a fiscal unity with a majority of its Dutch subsidiaries for corporate income tax and VAT purposes. A company
and its subsidiaries that are part of these fiscal unities are jointly and severally liable for the tax payable by these fiscal unities.
Guarantees
In addition to the declaration of joint and several liability in compliance with article 403, book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, the
company provided parental support relating to the following items:
committed revolving credit facilities of €400 million;
guarantee facilities of €85 million;
ordinary business activities of the Group of €11 million;
ISDA agreements.
●

●

●

●

Separation agreement TNT Express
For details on the separation agreement with TNT Express, see note 3.9 to the consolidated financial statements.

Financial risk management
For disclosure on the company’s overall financial risk management programme, reference is made to note 4.4 to the consolidated
financial statements.

Financial instruments
For a summary of the company’s financial instruments relevant to these corporate financial statements, reference is made to
note 4.5 to the consolidated financial statements.

Related party transactions and balances
The company’s shares are widely held. As such, no ultimate controlling party can be identified. The company, acting as a holding
company, has relationships with a number of Group companies. In some cases, there are contractual arrangements in place under
which the company sources supplies from such undertakings or such undertakings source supplies from the company. Transactions
are in principle carried out at arm’s length.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

162

PostNL N.V.
Related party transactions
2017-2018, in € millions
Year ended at 31 December

2017
Transactions

Dividend income PostNL Group companies

Balances

Balances

73

104

Accounts receivable from PostNL Group companies/interest income

2018
Transactions

188

Accounts payable to PostNL Group companies/interest expense

(1)

Hedge accounts receivable/(payable) to PostNL Group companies/hedge income/(costs)
Net financing activities from Group companies
Income tax received from/(paid to) PostNL Group companies

(2)

(26)

44

(1)

(97)

206

33

27

For the compensation of the members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board, see note 5.1 to the consolidated
financial statements.

Subsequent events
On 25 February 2019, we have made a joint announcement with Sandd regarding our intention to create one strong national postal
network in the Netherlands. PostNL and Sandd have filed a request for approval with the regulator, which is the formal start of this
process. The transaction appreciates Sandd at an enterprise value of €130m and provides for the purchase of all (100%) Sandd
shares. The acquisition will be funded through cash on hand and external funding. The acquisition is conditional on approval of the
combination of Sandd and PostNL by the authorities, consultation with the relevant works councils and trade unions, and
agreement on the final transaction documentation.

Subsidiaries and associated companies at 31 December 2018
The list containing the information referred to in article 379 and article 414 of book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code is filed at the office of
the Chamber of Commerce in The Hague.

Appropriation of profit
Dividend proposal 2018
The Board of Management has decided, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, subject to shareholders approval at the 2018
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, to declare a dividend of €0.24 per ordinary share over 2018, of which €0.07 per ordinary
share has been paid as an interim dividend. The dividend will be paid, at shareholder’s election, either in ordinary PostNL shares or
in cash.
Appropriation of profit
The Board of Management, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, shall withdraw the corporate loss of €102 million from the
reserves. For detailed information on PostNL’s corporate performance, and the resulting loss, refer to section 6 of the financial
statements. Furthermore, the Board of Management, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, proposes to make an amount
of €96 million out of the distributable part of the shareholders’ equity available for distribution of the proposed dividend.
Subject to the adoption of PostNL’s financial statements by the General Meeting of Shareholders, and given an 2018 interim
dividend of €0.07 per ordinary share has been paid, the proposed 2018 final dividend has been set at €0.17 per ordinary share of
€0.08 nominal value, based on the outstanding number of 469,199,776 ordinary shares as per 31 December 2018. The dividend of
€0.17 will be paid, at shareholder’s election, either in ordinary PostNL shares or in cash. The dividend in shares will be paid out of
additional paid in capital as part of the distributable reserves, free of withholding tax in the Netherlands.
The ex-dividend date will be 18 April 2019, the record date is 23 April 2019 and the election period will start on 24 April 2019 and will
end on 8 May 2019 at 3PM CET. The conversion ratio will be based on the volume-weighted average share price for all PostNL
shares traded on Euronext Amsterdam over the three trading day period from 6 May 2019 up to and including 8 May 2019. The
value of the stock dividend, based on this VWAP, will, subject to rounding, be targeted at but not be lower than the cash dividend.
There will be no trading in stock dividend rights. The dividend will be payable as of 10 May 2019.
Upon approval of this proposal, corporate result will be appropriated as follows, whereby the final dividend represents a cash
dividend under the assumption of 100% cash election.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

163

PostNL
Appropriation of corporate profit
2018, in € millions
2018
(102)

Result attributable to the shareholders
Appropriation in accordance with the articles of association:
Reserves withdrawn by the Board of Management and approved by the Supervisory Board (article 31, paragraph 2)

(16)

(Interim) dividend paid in cash

80

Final dividend

The Hague, 25 February 2019
Board of Management
H.W.P.M.A. Verhagen (CEO)
P. Berendsen (CFO)
Supervisory Board
J.J. Nooitgedagt (Chairman)
J. Wallage
E. Blok
J.W.M. Engel
A.M. Jongerius
T. Menssen
F.H. Rövekamp
PostNL N.V.
Prinses Beatrixlaan 23
2595 AK The Hague
The Netherlands

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

198
96

Dividend on ordinary shares

164

Section 7: Other information
Appropriation of profit
Extract from the articles of association on appropriation of profit
Under PostNL’s articles of association, the dividend specified in article 31, paragraph 1 will first be paid on the preference shares B if
outstanding. Subject to the approval of PostNL’s Supervisory Board, the Board of Management will determine thereafter which part
of the profit remaining after payment of dividend on any preference shares B will be appropriated to the reserves (article 31,
paragraph 2). The remaining profit after the appropriation to reserves shall be at the disposal of the General Meeting of
Shareholders (article 31, paragraph 3). No dividend shall be paid on shares held by PostNL in its own capital (article 31, paragraph
6). Preference shares B were not issued in 2018.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

165

Independent auditor's report
To: the shareholders and Supervisory Board of PostNL N.V.

Report on the audit of the financial statements 2018 included in the Annual Report
Our opinion
We have audited the financial statements 2018 of PostNL N.V. (hereinafter: the Company), based in The Hague, the Netherlands.
In our opinion the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of PostNL N.V. as at 31
December 2018, and of its result and its cash flows for 2018, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as
adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS), and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
The financial statements comprise:
●

●

●

The consolidated and corporate statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018
The following statements for 2018: the consolidated and corporate income statement, the consolidated and corporate statement
of comprehensive income, the consolidated and corporate statement of cash flows and the consolidated and corporate
statement of changes in equity
The notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information

Basis for our opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those
standards are further described in the “Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements” section of our report.
We are independent of PostNL N.V. in accordance with the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of
public-interest entities, the “Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties” (Wta, Audit firms supervision act), the “Verordening inzake de
onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten” (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with
respect to independence) and other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. Furthermore we have complied with
the “Verordening gedrags- en beroepsregels accountants” (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics).
We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Materiality
Materiality
Benchmark applied
Explanation

€9.5 million (2017: €12.6 million)
5% of operating income
We consider an earnings-based measure as the most appropriate basis to determine materiality.
We consider operating income to be the most appropriate earnings-based benchmark, as it
provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and is one of the key
performance measures for the users of the financial statements.
The benchmark applied is in line with last year’s audit.

We have also taken misstatements into account and/or possible misstatements that in our opinion are material for the users of the
financial statements for qualitative reasons.
We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements in excess of €475,000, which are identified during the audit, would be
reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that in our view must be reported on qualitative grounds.

Scope of the group audit
PostNL N.V. is at the head of a group of entities. The financial information of this group is included in the consolidated financial
statements of PostNL N.V.
Our group audit mainly focused on significant group entities of PostNL N.V. within the segments Parcels, Mail in the Netherlands
and PostNL Other. Although Postcon and Nexive have been classified as discontinued operations and assets held for sale as of
August 2018, specific scoping has been assigned to the most significant entities of Postcon and Nexive.
Due to their significance and/or risk characteristics, we performed full scope or specific scope audit procedures on the significant
group entities within Parcels, Mail in the Netherlands and PostNL Other. Specific scope procedures were performed on several
entities within discontinued operations (hereinafter referred to as Postcon and Nexive).

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

166

For the entities in scope within Parcels and Mail in the Netherlands, except Spring Hong Kong, the group engagement team
performed the work. For Postcon, Nexive and Spring Hong Kong we used component auditors, who are familiar with local laws and
regulations, to perform audit procedures to obtain sufficient coverage for financial statement line items from a consolidated
financial statements perspective.
Component materiality was determined by our judgment, based on the relative size of the component and our risk assessment.
Component materiality did not exceed €6.0 million and the majority of our component auditors applied a component materiality
that is significantly less than this threshold.
We sent detailed instructions to all component auditors, covering the significant areas that should be addressed and set out in the
information required to be reported to us. We interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various
stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
The group consolidation, financial disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the group engagement team at the
Company’s head office. These included goodwill and Mail investments impairment testing, valuation of assets classified as held for
sale and pensions. We involved several EY specialists to assist the audit team, including specialists from our tax, valuations, actuarial
and treasury departments.
In total, in performing these procedures, we achieved, by performing full and specific scope procedures, the following coverage on
the financial line items:

None of the components covered through other procedures (remaining components) individually represented more than 3% of
total group revenue. For those remaining components we performed, amongst others, analytical procedures to corroborate our
assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatements within those components. By performing the procedures
mentioned above at entity level, together with additional procedures at group level, we have been able to obtain sufficient and
appropriate audit evidence about the group’s financial information to provide an opinion about the financial statements.

Our key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial
statements. We have communicated the key audit matters to the Supervisory Board. The key audit matters are not a
comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed.
Compared to the key audit matters identified in 2017, accounting for discontinued operations and assets held for sale, including the
related deferred tax asset (collectively referred to as Discontinued operations) has been added as a key audit matter, following the
decision of the Company to divest Postcon and Nexive. Pensions no longer qualifies as a key audit matter since we concluded,
based on the actual coverage ratio of the pension fund, the current risk in relation to an additional funding requirement as per 31
December 2018 to be remote.
The key audit matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

167

Risk

Our audit approach

Key observations

The Company’s management engaged third-party
experts to provide valuation modelling support with
respect to the determination of the fair value less costs
to sell of the assets classified as held for sale under IFRS
5. We included valuation specialists in our team to
assist us with the audit of the fair value determination.
Our procedures consisted of the following:

Management valued the assets classified as
held for sale by using an income approach
and corroborated that value with
confirmatory non-binding indicative offers
subsequently received. In case the
confirmatory non-binding indicative offers
deviated from the value as calculated
through the income approach, management
considered the reasons for deviations and
made adjustments where deemed
necessary.
By nature measuring fair value involve risk
and uncertainty because the valuation is
linked to future events and circumstances
and there are many factors that could cause
actual results and developments to differ
materially from the expectations as included
in the measurement.
We confirm that the Company’s accounting
policies in relation to assets classified for sale
and discontinued operations were
appropriately applied and we consider
management’s assumptions applied in the
valuation of the assets classified as held for
sale and in the valuation of the deferred tax
asset to be reasonable.
Furthermore, we assessed that the
disclosures in note 3.8 Assets classified as
held for sale and the note related to deferred
tax assets as included in note 3.7 Deferred
income tax assets and liabilities of the
corporate primary statements are
appropriate.

Discontinued operations
In August 2018 PostNL decided to divest its
Postcon (Germany) and Nexive (Italy)
business. Accordingly Postcon and Nexive are
reported as assets classified as held for sale
and the results and cashflows are reported as
discontinued operations.
As per 31 December 2018 the Company
recorded a net impairment of €59 million to
the original carrying value, which includes a
€57 million positive tax effect as a result of the
origination of a deferred tax asset in
conjunction with the decision to divest and
subsequently liquidate the Postcon and
Nexive entities.
We focused in our audit procedures on these
areas given the significant management
judgment involved in relation to the valuation
of the assets classified as held for sale and the
assessment of the recoverability of the
deferred tax asset.
Further reference is made to note 3.8 Assets
classified as held for sale and note 3.7
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities to
the consolidated primary statements.

• Gained an understanding of the process around discontinued
operations, and evaluated the control design in this area
• Assessed the appropriateness and compliance of the Company’s
accounting policies in relation to assets held for sale and discontinued
operations
• Evaluated the valuation methodologies as applied by the Company
and compared them to accepted industry practice
• We validated that the projected financial information used in the
analysis was derived from PostNL’s most recent strategic plan and
long-term forecast as approved by the Board of Management and
Supervisory Board, adjusted for subsequent developments, have
evaluated the historical accuracy of management’s assessment of
operating income by comparing the historical actual results to
previously applied forecasts and verified the discount rate to external
information
• Corroborated the valuation as defined by management to
confirmatory non-binding indicative offers (hereinafter “offers”)
received and assessed the reasonableness of adjustments to the
Original valuation based on those offers
• Reconciled the amounts presented as discontinued operations to the
underlying trial balances and validated the costs to sell to supporting
documentation

With the involvement of our tax experts we audited the
calculation of the deferred tax asset originating as a
result of the decision to divest and subsequently
liquidate the Postcon and Nexive entities. We verified
the clerical accuracy, the timing of realization against
the applicable enacted tax rate, as well as the
recoverability of the deferred tax asset by testing
management’s assumptions to determine the
probability that the deferred tax assets recognized in
the balance sheet will be recovered.
We also assessed the adequacy of the Company’s
disclosures around Assets classified as held for sale as
included in note 3.8 and the related deferred tax assets
as included in note 3.7 Deferred income tax assets and
liabilities of the consolidated primary statements.

Valuation Mail investments
(corporate primary statements)
At 31 December 2018 the value of Mail
investments, as included in the corporate
primary statements, amounted up to €3,075
million. At each balance sheet date the
Company reviews whether there is an
indication that its Mail investments are
impaired or whether there are indicators that
a previously recognized impairment may no
longer exist or may have decreased.
We focused on this area given the significant
judgment and complexity of valuation
methodologies used to determine whether
the carrying value of Mail investments is
appropriate, which includes assessing the
assumptions used within the models to
support the recoverable amount of
Mail investments.
The assumptions, sensitivities and results of
the tests performed are disclosed in note 6.4.1
of the corporate primary statements. In
addition, the general accounting policy
around impairment is disclosed in note 1.3 and
5.4 of the consolidated primary statements.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

We have gained an understanding of the Mail
investments impairment testing process, performed a
walkthrough of the impairment analysis process (e.g.
controls over the data and assumptions used in the
analysis such as the discount rate) and evaluated the
control design in this area.
Our EY valuation specialists assisted us with our audit of
PostNL’s annual impairment analysis. We reviewed the
valuation model to assure that the methodology used is
in line with IAS 36 Impairment of assets.
We validated that the projected financial information
(cash flows, internal forecasts) used in the analysis was
derived from PostNL’s most recent strategic plan and
long-term forecast as approved by the Board of
Management and Supervisory Board and have
evaluated the historical accuracy of management’s
assessment by comparing the historical actual results
to the forecasts used. We challenged the assumptions
used by the Company in their valuation model by
comparing to external information such as expected
inflation rates, discount rates and implied growth rates.
We confirmed that the cash flow projections are
appropriate and consistent with the information
approved by the executive committee, reconciled the
carrying value to financial information from the
accounting system.
On top of the procedures mentioned before, we have
assessed and challenged the sensitivity analysis as
performed by the Company. In the sensitivity analysis
for Mail investments the Company stress tested the key
assumptions discount rate and operating income to
calculate the impact of a change in assumption.
We also assessed the adequacy of the Company’s
disclosures around Mail investments as included in note
6.4.1 of the corporate primary statements.

168

We consider management’s assumptions to
be within the acceptable range and we
assessed that the disclosures for Mail
investments are appropriate.
The Company impaired €164 million in 2018.
We agree with management’s conclusion.

Risk

Our audit approach

Key observations

Deferred revenue and revenue
related accruals
(stamps and terminal dues)
Various assumptions are being made in the
measurement (model inputs) of deferred
revenue and revenue related accruals. The
accounting hereof is important to our audit
given the significant judgment involved and
the estimates used in the calculation of the
deferred revenues and revenue related
accruals can have an impact on the
operating revenues and accrued liabilities.
Further reference is made to note 3.1.3 and
3.1.4 to the consolidated primary
statements. In addition, the general
accounting policy around deferred revenue
and revenue related accruals is disclosed in
note 1.3 of the consolidated primary
statements.

We have gained an understanding of the deferred
revenue stamps and the terminal dues and its
revenue related accruals process, performed
walkthroughs of the revenue classes of
transactions and evaluated the design and
effectiveness of controls in this area.
For deferred revenue stamps we performed
detailed analytical procedures on the model used.
We performed testing procedures on variables
used as input for the deferred revenue balance
and reconciled them to source documentation.
We identified, challenged and verified the
reasonableness of significant assumptions made
by management and included in the model to
calculate the deferred revenue stamps.
Furthermore, we performed back testing
procedures on the assumptions used by
management.
For terminal dues we performed detailed
analytical procedures on the positions, which
included inquiry of management of the Company
on the development of the postal volume and
took in consideration external reports provided
by other postal services, as defined in the
Universal Postal Service obligations, on postal
volume delivered to PostNL as well as the status
of the negotiations. We performed test of details
procedures on the contractual agreements on the
volume and price developments, which includes
back testing of previous estimates. We performed
detailed procedures to determine the correctness
of adjustments by substantiating the balances by
agreeing the amounts to supporting
documentation.
We also assessed the appropriateness of the
Company's accounting policies in relation to
deferred revenue, including the impact of the new
revenue recognition standard (IFRS 15 Revenue
from Contracts with Customers), which has been
adopted as of 1 January 2018 and the adequacy
of the Company’s related disclosures as included
in note 3.1.3 and 3.1.4 of the consolidated
primary statements.

We confirm that the Company’s revenue
recognition accounting policies were
appropriately applied. Furthermore, we
have assessed that management’s
assumptions are within the acceptable
range and the positions as per 31
December 2018 are management’s best
estimate. In addition, we assessed that the
disclosures are appropriate.

We have gained an understanding of the process
related to regulatory proceedings.
We furthermore inquired with both internal and
external legal staff as well as with the Company’s
financial staff in respect of ongoing regulatory
proceedings and investigations, inspected
relevant correspondence, inspected the minutes
of the meetings of the Audit Committee,
Supervisory Board and Board of Management,
requested and obtained a confirmation letter
from the group’s in-house legal counsel,
requested and received lawyers letter from the
external attorney to assess the position of
management.
We also assessed the adequacy of the Company’s
related disclosures as included in note 3.5 Other
provisions of the consolidated primary
statements and note 6.4.1 Investments in Mail of
the corporate primary statements.

We note, that based on the information
available to date and taking into account
the inherent uncertainties, management
has taken in consideration the impact of the
regulatory developments and proceedings
in its valuation of Mail investments. We
consider management’s assessment of the
impact to be within the acceptable range.
We consider management’s conclusion on
the predicted outcome and estimation of
potential impact of other claims
reasonable.
Furthermore we assessed that the
disclosures are appropriate.

Impact of laws and regulation on the
valuation of the business of PostNL
PostNL is obliged to provide services as
stated in the Postwet and is bound to the
related obligations. As a result, PostNL
operates in a heavily regulated market.
Monitoring of the compliance to these
regulations is delegated by the Dutch
government to the Autoriteit Consument en
Markt (hereafter: ACM).
In September 2018 the Dutch Trade and
Industry Appeals Tribunal (CBb) annulled
ACM’s decision in relation to significant
market power (SMP) and tariff setting. In
December 2018 the ACM published a new
draft SMP decision.
In addition to the above, PostNL from time to
time is involved as a party in legal
proceedings.
This area is important to our audit, as there is
a risk that one of the current and/or future
challenges and/or allegations could have an
impact on future business and therefore on
the valuation of Mail investments of the
corporate financial statements. Further
reference is made to note 6.4.1 Investments
in Mail of the corporate primary statements
and to note 3.5 Other provisions of the
consolidated primary statements.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

169

Report on other information included in the Annual Report
In addition to the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon, the Annual Report contains other information that consists
of:
The Report of the Management Board
Other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code
Non-financial performance statements
●

●

●

Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude that the other information:
Is consistent with the financial statements and does not contain material misstatements
Contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code
●

●

We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained through our audit of the financial
statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information contains material misstatements. By performing
these procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The
scope of the procedures performed is substantially less than the scope of those performed in our audit of the financial statements.
Management is responsible for the preparation of the other information, including the report of the management board in
accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.

Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
Engagement

Following the appointment by the Annual General Meeting of shareholders on 14 April 2015, we were engaged by the Supervisory
Board on 11 January 2016 as auditor of PostNL N.V., as of the audit for the year 2016 and have operated as statutory auditor since
that date.

No prohibited non-audit services
We have not provided prohibited non-audit services as referred to in Article 5(1) of the EU Regulation on specific requirements
regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities.

Other non-prohibited services provided
In addition to the statutory audit of the financial statements we provided the following services:
Assurance report on the Corporate Responsibility reporting included in the Annual Report
Audit services on financial statements of group entities
Assurance report on the ISAE 3402 report for third parties
Agreed upon procedures to attest filings and assurance reports to regulatory authorities (ACM)
Assurance report on basic data to be provided to the pension fund
●

●

●

●

●

Description of responsibilities for the financial statements

Responsibilities of Board of Management and the Supervisory Board for the financial statements
The Board of Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with
EU-IFRS and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, the Board of Management is responsible for such internal control
as the Board of Management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the Board of Management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability
to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting frameworks mentioned, the Board of Management should prepare
the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Management either intends to liquidate
the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Board of Management should disclose events
and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the financial
statements.
The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

170

Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objective is to plan and perform the audit engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit
evidence for our opinion.
Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not detect all material errors
and fraud during our audit.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. The materiality affects
the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion.
We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained professional skepticism throughout the audit, in accordance with
Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our audit included among others:
●

●

●

●

●

●

Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designing
and performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one
resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal
control
Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control
Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
disclosures made by management
Concluding on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However,
future events or conditions may cause a company to cease to continue as a going concern
Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures
Evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair
presentation

Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group
audit. In this respect we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures to be carried out for group entities. Decisive
were the size and/or the risk profile of the group entities or operations. On this basis, we selected group entities for which an audit
or review had to be carried out on the complete set of financial information or specific items.
We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we identify during our audit. In this respect we
also submit an additional report to the Audit Committee in accordance with Article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements
regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities. The information included in this additional report is consistent with our audit
opinion in this auditor’s report.
We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board, we determine the key audit matters: those matters that were of most
significance in the audit of the financial statements. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation
precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the matter is in the
public interest.
Amsterdam, 25 February 2019
Ernst & Young Accountants LLP
signed by S.D.J. Overbeek – Goeseije

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

171

PostNL Driving transition | 18 Financial statements

172

19 Non-financial statements
Non-financial performance indicators
Customer value

Notes

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Highly satisfied customers

2.1

not reported

not reported

38%

41%

30%

Progress on transformation (share of revenues related to e-commerce)

2.2

not reported

not reported

40%

44%

48%

Delivery quality of Mail in the Netherlands (preliminary)

2.3

97%

96%

96%

95%

95%

Satisfied customers

2.1

80%

84%

86%

85%

82%

Reputation score

2.1

64.5

67.7

67.8

69.7

67.7

Notes

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Key Performance Indicators

Other Performance Indicators

Operational value
Key Performance Indicators
Volume development Parcels (in millions of items)

3.1

142

156

177

207

251

Volume development Mail (in millions items)

3.1

2,705

2,401

2,213

1,994

1,781

Cost savings Mail (in € millions)

3.2

127

85

64

56

48

3.3

91%

96%

100%

100%

100%

Other Performance Indicators
ISO 9001 certification (percentage of total FTE working in certified sites)

Social value
Notes

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Employee engagement (% of engaged employees)

4.1

60%

64%

68%

67%

65%

Employee loyalty (% of employees expected to stay)

4.1

83%

86%

88%

86%

88%

Headcount in Non Financial reporting scope

4.2

46,513

43,248

41,497

38,965

37,785

FTE in Non Financial reporting scope

4.2

21,614

20,372

20,730

20,791

20,421

Culture index

4.1

not reported

55

58

58

57

Training hours per FTE

4.3

19

22

17

17

22

Percentage of females in management positions

4.4

24%

25%

24%

21%

21%

Fatal accidents

4.5

2

3

1

1

2

Lost time accidents - per 100 FTEs

4.5

1.7

2.5

2.5

3.1

2.3

Absenteeism (% of total working hours)

4.5

5.3%

5.0%

5.0%

5.2%

5.9%

OHSAS 18001 certification (% of FTE working in certified sites)

4.5

88%

94%

100%

100%

100%

Key Performance Indicators

Other Performance Indicators

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

173

Environmental value

Notes

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

5.1

53.5

50.4

45.7

40.2

38.6

Scope 1 gross GHG emissions (in ktCO2e)

5.5

42

40

41

36

37

Scope 1 net GHG emissions (in ktCO22)

5.5

40

37

39

30

31

Scope 2 gross GHG emissions (in ktCO2e)

5.5

40

37

42

38

39

Scope 2 net GHG emissions (in ktCO2e)

5.5

(1)

(1)

(2)

0

0

Scope 3 gross GHG emissions (in ktCO2e)

5.5

145

232

199

171

160

Scope 3 net GHG emissions (in ktCO2e)

5.5

137

224

194

166

154

NOx emissions in kg

5.4

51,894

42,692

39,420

37,668

35,935

NOx emissions (gr/km)

5.4

0.64

0.55

0.50

0.46

0.43

PM10 emissions in kg

5.4

1,080

685

615

628

651

PM10 emissions in (gr/km)

5.4

0.01

0.01

0.01

0.01

0.01

Vehicles complying with Euro 6

5.4

5%

8%

19%

48%

76%

Vehicles complying with Euro 5

5.4

91%

92%

81%

52%

24%

Vehicles not complying with Euro 6 or Euro 5

5.4

4%

0%

0%

0%

0%

ISO 14001 certification (percentage of total FTE working in certified
sites)

5.6

90%

95%

100%

100%

100%

Key Performance Indicators
CO2 efficency index (2007=100)
Other Performance Indicators

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

174

Section 1: Basis of preparation
1.1 Reporting principles
Long-term value creation requires companies to steer both on the financial and non-financial aspects of business. Certain
non-financial aspects contribute directly or indirectly to financial performance, and often have a greater impact over the medium to
long term. At PostNL, we believe that an integrated approach towards performance management is key to ensuring the company
creates stakeholder value in the long run.

Integrated Reporting as guidance
The Integrated Reporting framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) provides guidance on how companies
should communicate about value creation. PostNL used the guiding principles and main content elements of the framework as a
basis for this Annual Report. PostNL aims to further develop its corporate reporting communication about long-term value creation.

Sustainability Reporting Standards applied
PostNL prepared the non-financial information in this Annual Report in accordance with the core option of the 2016 Sustainability
Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The GRI standards provide relevant and clear requirements for
sustainability reporting on economic, social and environmental aspects, while allowing for company-specific aspects to be
reported. PostNL decided to report in accordance with the core option of GRI because not all specific disclosures on material GRI
topics, which are reporting requirements in the comprehensive option, are relevant for the company.
In addition to the GRI requirements, we apply supplemental reporting criteria specific to PostNL for reporting elements which are
not covered by GRI. This includes specific reporting definitions as presented in appendix 3: Glossary and definitions.

Commitment to UN Global Compact
As a UN Global Compact signatory since 2012, PostNL reports annually through an online submission its progress of implementing
the ten UN Global Compact principles. These are related to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Appendix 6
provides an overview of the ten principles and references to the descriptions of progress on those principles in this Annual Report.

Contributing to the SDGs
PostNL evaluated the relevant SDGs in relation to our business activities. To identify our focus areas we looked at which sections of
the underlying SDG targets (specified by the UN) are most relevant to our business. Specific examples of the progress we made in
2018 include the publication of our diversity policy (SDG 8) and setting long-term goals on emission-free delivery towards 2025 and
2030 (SDG 13). We continue to take relevant SDG targets into account as input for our long-term strategy. This helps us to define
actions that will positively influence sustainable development.

Relevant SDG targets for PostNL:

Relevant SDG targets for PostNL:

a. Promote economic growth by offering new services
b. Playing a proactive role in innovating our value chain
c. Contribute to an inclusive economy with decent working
conditions
d. Offering training, education and other means of employee
development
e. Contribute to improving the efficiency and consumption of
resources

a. Including the risks related to climate change and natural
disasters in risk management
b. Develop and implement programs aimed at reducing the
impact on climate change
We measure our results based on the progress towards
the reduction of climate change impact through our CO2
efficiency index. From 2019, we will change to measuring our
results on the progress of our Science-Based Targets.

For a. and b. we measure our results through the growth of
e-commerce and customer satisfaction. Using social value
performance indicators, we measure our progress on c. and d.
We measure the efficiency of energy in our buildings as an
example of e.

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

175

EU directive on non-financial information
As a large listed company in the Netherlands, PostNL is required to comply with the EU directive on non-financial information
(2014/95/EU). This directive is implemented in Dutch law and applies to annual reports published after 1 January 2018. PostNL is
required to report about non-financial information in relation to environmental, social and personnel matters, in respect of human
rights and combatting bribery and corruption. The mandatory disclosures include:
●

●

●

Policies and results thereof
Main risks and how these are managed
Performance indicators, to the extent that these elements exist within PostNL.

Greenhouse Gas Protocol
PostNL uses the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) to report its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The production of direct and
indirect CO2 emissions represents the main greenhouse gas emissions of PostNL. We also take other GHG emissions into account,
such as CH4 and N2O and report our climate change impact in CO2 equivalents.

Aligning with Taskforce on Climate related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
PostNL recognises that climate change events can have an impact on our company and business. For many years, PostNL has
included the reduction of GHG emissions in its strategy. After meeting our internally-set CO2 efficiency target in 2017, we evaluated
our strategy and set new, long-term science-based emission reduction targets (see chapter 9: Environmental value, for more
details). We expect these targets to be validated by the SBT initiative on short notice. In addition, we developed long-term targets
for our last-mile delivery. This includes emission-free delivery in 25 city centres in the Netherlands by 2025 and emission-free
last-mile delivery across the Benelux by 2030. This evaluation included a more risk-based approach in relation to our direct and
indirect activities. During 2018, PostNL started to prepare a methodology to apply an internal carbon price in our (strategic)
decision making. We aim to implement this methodology in 2019. This is aimed to support our management in making
more informed decisions and further reduce our environmental impact to achieve our targets.

1.2 Reporting criteria

Explanation of reporting criteria used
The GRI standards provided a structured approach to prepare the non-financial information in this report. This includes universal
disclosures and topic-specific disclosures. The universal disclosures consist of three key elements:
a. Foundations: Defining report content & quality, requirements for preparing a report in accordance with GRI
b. General standard disclosures: Contextual information about PostNL, its strategy and governance and non-financial reporting
practices; and
c. Management approach: Information on how PostNL manages its key material topics
PostNL uses the topic-specific disclosures to describe the company’s impact related to each key material topic, expressed in key
performance indicators.
In addition, PostNL has also taken into account two important elements in relation to value creation as described by the IIRC:
Strategic focus / future orientation
Information about the strategy and ability to create short, medium and long-term value and the ability to the use of and effect on
the relevant capitals; and
Connectivity
Show a holistic picture of the combination, interrelatedness and dependencies between the factors that affect the organisation’s
ability to create value over time
●

●

The GRI content index table in appendix 5 provides references to sections with specific information in relation to the GRI
requirements in this report.

Description of reporting foundations
Stakeholder engagement
PostNL's main stakeholder groups, and why these groups are relevant to us, are outlined in chapter 4: Our operating context.
We interact with a variety of stakeholders on a regular basis to understand their expectations, needs and interests. In addition to
dealing with our stakeholders' interests, needs and expectations directly though our day-to-day operations, we also engage with
them through a stakeholder dialogue event. In 2018 this event was held on 30 October, where we discussed topics stakeholders are
interested in and expect PostNL to take action on. Where relevant we discuss SDG-related topics for example on decent work with
our people and on climate action in discussions with VBDO. Additionally, we use a materiality assessment to identify those topics
that have the greatest influence on stakeholders' decisions, and which require management's strategic attention.

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

176

The table below details the topics of interest and the means of engagement with each stakeholder group.

Understanding the expectations of stakeholders helps PostNL to allocate resources effectively on relevant topics while focusing on
adding short, medium and long-term value.
Sustainability context
Performance data becomes information only when put into context, which is an important principle we apply to our non-financial
reporting. Our performance is influenced by our strategic actions and external circumstances, which could be sector or location
specific and based on relevant trends and common goals, such as the SDGs. PostNL provides context to its performance on key
material topics in the Business Report of this Annual Report.
Materiality assessment
While PostNL interacts with its stakeholders on a variety of different topics, selecting the key material topics is required to bring
focus to the Annual Report. This materiality concept is similar to financial reporting and is applied by evaluating the extent to which
a topic influences stakeholders' decisions and the significance of PostNL’s impact on its environment, including stakeholders.
Identification of topics
PostNL used the following sources to prepare a long list of 44 topics as a first step in the assessment:
●

Desktop research including:
Peer review;
Market trend;
Topics evaluated in prior years, through our Annual Reports;
Interests of benchmarks and guidelines (such as DJSI, CDP, GRI);
Media search;
Evaluation of relevant SDGs;
Stakeholder dialogue on 30 October 2018;
Interviews with (senior) management representing certain stakeholder groups with whom they have regular contact.
●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

177

Selecting key-material topics
We first clustered topics based on their nature, resulting in a list of 34 remaining topics. The prioritisation of topics was performed
based on the following process:
a. Using the results of the external survey held at the end 2017 and an internal assessment as the basis
b. Updating the wording of topics to report on more specific topics
c. Categorising topics in different domains of value creation
d. Updating the prioritisation of topics in the materiality matrix (see chapter 4: Our operating context) by the Annual Report
project team. This was based on developments within PostNL and its operating environment and the relative importance of
different stakeholders
e. Discuss the prioritisation of topics through interviews with (senior) management representing relevant stakeholder groups and
those responsible for PostNL’s strategic plans
f. Validate the materiality matrix with the Executive Committee which includes approval of PostNL's Board of Management.
List of topics and relation to value creation
PostNL mapped its material topics to the five different domains of value creation in chapter 4: Our operating context, section
materiality.
Completeness
The final element of the report foundations relate to completeness of topics, clear boundaries and coverage of the topics over time,
to sufficiently reflect the significance of PostNL’s impact.
Through the materiality assessment, PostNL selected, to the best of its knowledge, all relevant topics to include in this report. For
each topic included in the non-financial disclosures, PostNL identified the topic boundaries where PostNL’s impacts occur and how
PostNL is involved in these impacts.
For all key material topics, the main impact of PostNL’s activities occur in the Benelux, with the exception of environmental impact,
where the main impact is outside the Benelux due to air transport of mail and parcels. For all key material topics, PostNL influences
the impact by its direct activities. For the key material topics 'Customer experience' and 'Emission-free delivery', for PostNL this
influence is also impacted by indirect activities, mainly through activities carried out by others working for PostNL.

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

178

1.3 Safeguarding report quality
Quality principles

PostNL applied high quality standards when preparing the non-financial information in this Annual Report. This means that the
company ensures that the information this report provides is:
●

●

●

●

●

●

Accurate: Precise and with sufficient level of detail
Balanced: Reflects both positive and negative aspects of performance
Clear: Understandable and accessible for stakeholders
Comparable: Consistent and allows for comparability over time
Reliable: Auditable
Timely: Allow stakeholders to make informed decisions.

Scoping
PostNL has aligned the scope of reporting non-financial information with financial information. On certain areas the non-financial
information scope differs from the financial reporting scope.
We do not include information about joint ventures in the scope of non-financial information. In addition to PostNL employees, we
provide indirect employment to associates and those employed by delivery partners. PostNL includes information about fatal
accidents of our contracted business to external partners. We also include the CO2 emissions from contracted business to external
partners in the Benelux as well as international air transport of mail and parcels in the scope of reporting. For our cross border
business the scope of reporting includes all transport where PostNL is involved in. Local transport outside our influence and last mile
delivery by others outside the Benelux is excluded from the scope.

Significant estimates and judgements
PostNL strives to report the non-financial information as accurate and complete as possible. Due to inherent limitations in relation
to the uncertainty of measurement equipment and/or availability of actual data, we use estimates, assumptions and judgements in
our reporting. Estimates, assumptions and judgements are based on historical experience and other factors, including reasonable
expectations under given circumstances.
For certain information, such as accidents, it is difficult to determine reasonable expectations. We partly depend on the reporting
discipline of our people for accidents occurred during the year. Despite all measures PostNL implemented, including an open safety
culture, the inherent risk of incomplete accident reporting remains.
Significant estimates in emissions reporting
Emissions reporting provides inherent limitations to the accuracy of information. The main reason is the unavailability of data from
contracted parties by PostNL about their actual energy consumption and CO2 emissions. Another reason is that actual emissions
monitoring is not common and therefore conversion factors published by external institutes are used. PostNL used the following
significant estimates to report its emissions:
Fuel consumption of contracted partners
For the contracted partners in the Netherlands we calculate the fuel consumption using planned kilometres by vans from our
operational systems and the average fuel consumption of our own fleet. In order to make conservative estimations, we assume all
delivery partner use diesel vans. Contrary to our own fleet, which also includes electric and biogas vehicles, we do not know the
kilometres driven by more sustainable vehicles.
Fuel consumption for international commercial linehaul activities
For both trucks and air freight, PostNL calculates the tonne-kilometres carried based on the distance travelled (between the
Netherlands and the hub of the destination) and the actual mass of the mail and parcels transported. For trucks, PostNL uses
publicly available route planning information, and for air travel PostNL uses publicly available information (Great Circle Mapper) to
calculate the great circle distance between airports.
CO2, NOx and PM10 emissions
To calculate CO2 emissions of our total own operations and of subcontracted operations to our delivery partners in the Benelux, we
use different external sources in order to estimate the emissions as accurately as possible.
PostNL uses the conversion factors from activity data to CO2 emissions published by the UK government department for
environment, food and rural affairs (DEFRA) as a basis. These factors are based on the annual submission of the GHG inventory for
the UK to the United Nations Framework Convention of Climate Change (UNFCCC) which is prepared in accordance with the

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

179

guidelines of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). The conversion factors of electricity use outside the UK are
not provided by DEFRA, therefore PostNL uses the factors published by the International Energy Agency (IEA), an autonomous
body in the framework of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). For the emissions of the
discontinued operations in Germany and Italy, we calculate the emissions based on a combined average CO2 per euro revenue of
PostNL, Deutsche Post DHL and Royal Mail. For PostNL we use our actual 2018 data, while for Deutsche Post DHL and Royal Mail we
use data from their latest published Annual Reports.
The emissions of NOx and PM10 are not directly related to the usage of combustion fuels, but depend mainly on the efficiency of the
engines of vehicles. The actual emissions of NOx and PM10 are not measured, therefore we use the maximum allowed emissions for
the various European emission standards of vehicles we use (Euro 4, Euro 5 or Euro 6) in grams per kilometre. By using the
maximum allowed emissions, PostNL reports the NOx and PM10 emissions conservatively.
Significant judgements
Customer satisfaction, employee engagement, brand reputation and delivery quality are indicators measured on sample basis.
PostNL aims to report performance data that provides a representative view of the population from which the sample is taken. To
achieve this representativeness, PostNL ensures the sample sizes are statistically sufficient and include all different sub populations
to justify our assumption that the result of the measurement represents the view of the entire population for the indicators
mentioned.

Data revisions
Developments in business, reporting requirements and methodology improvements influence the way PostNL measures,
calculates and reports its performance data. Whenever PostNL updates its reporting scope or reporting methods, we also revise
prior years’ data to keep the performance data comparable over time.
Discontinued operations in 2018 and scope 3 emissions
As a result of the decision to sell Nexive in Italy and Postcon in Germany, these entities are presented in the financial statements as
discontinued operations. The performance of these entities is therefore presented separately and excluded from the main
performance statements and descriptions in the Business report.
Our company-wide definition of a lost time accident includes accidents causing absence of at least one working day. Due to local
requirements in Germany, our discontinued entity Postcon applied a different definition. The lost time accidents of Postcon are
based on accidents causing absence of at least three days. This definition has been applied by Postcon for all years presented in the
data revision table.
During our quality review on our scope 3 emissions for 2018, we noted two other elements requiring data revisions. We found out
that the scope 3 emissions of our time critical network has been incomplete. We also noted a double counting in our scope 3
emissions for Spring. The effect of data revisions in relation to scope 3 emissions include the effect of outscoping Nexive and
Postcon, addition of TGN scope 3 emissions and revising our scope 3 emissions for Spring. The individual effect of these changes are
presented in a separate table.
The overview below provides insight into the comparative figures 2014 until 2017, reported and revised excluding Nexive and
Postcon. In addition it provides insight into the impact of scoping out the discontinued operations for the main 2018 non-financial
performance indicators. It also includes the effect of the other data revisons in our scope 3 emissions for the respective years.

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

180

PostNL
Effect of data revisions of discontinued operations and scope 3 emissions
2014 - 2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Headcount before data revision

50.522

47.277

46,456

44,263

42,693

Headcount after data revision

46,513

43,248

41,497

38,965

37,785

Full time equivalents (FTE) before data revision

24,952

23,648

23,933

25,279

24,677

Full time equivalents (FTE) after data revision

21,614

20,372

20,730

20,791

20,421

Before data revision

not reported

not reported

33%

38%

not
appliclable

After data revision

not reported

not reported

40%

44%

48%

Before data revision

5.2%

5.0%

4.9%

5.3%

6.0%

After data revision

5.3%

5.0%

5.0%

5.2%

5.9%

Before data revision

2

3

1

2

2

After data revision

2

3

1

1

2

Before data revision

2.2

2.9

2.9

3.5

3.3

After data revision

1.7

2.5

2.5

3.1

2.3

Before data revision

59%

64%

67%

66%

64%

After data revision

60%

64%

68%

67%

65%

Before data revision

56.1

51.4

49.2

42.9

40.3

After data revision

53.5

50.4

45.7

40.2

38.6

Before data revision

44

42

43

39

40

After data revision

42

40

41

36

37

Before data revision

43

40

46

43

43

After data revision

40

37

42

38

39

Before data revision

156

248

228

195

197

After data revision

145

232

199

171

160

Workforce
Headcount in non-financial scope

FTE in non-financial reporting scope

Customer value
Progress on transformation (share of revenues related to ecommerce)

Health and safety
Absenteism (% of total working hours)

Fatalities

Lost time accidents - per 100 FTEs

Employee engagement (% of engaged employees)

CO2 efficiency index
CO2 efficiency index (2007=100)

Scope 1 gross GHG emissions (in ktCO2e)

Scope 2 gross GHG emissions (in ktCO2e)

Scope 3 gross GHG emissions (in ktCO2e)

The data revision for scope 3 emissions includes more elements than the effect of discontinued operations. The table on the next
page provides a breakdown of the data revisions.

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

181

PostNL
Overview of data revisions for scope 3 emissions (in ktCO2e)
2014 - 2017
2014

2015

2016

Reported gross scope 3 emissions

156

248

228

195

Effect of discontinued operations

(25)

(28)

(34)

(35)

Effect of Spring

(5)

(7)

(14)

(8)

Effect of TGN

19

19

19

19

145

232

199

171

Revised gross scope 3 emissions

2017

The total effect of data revisions in our scope 3 emissions is a decrease of 24 kilotonnes CO2 in our 2017 comparative figures. This is
a combination of effects from scoping our discontinued operations in Italy (Nexive) and Germany (Postcon), TGN and Spring. In
line with the trend since 2014, the scope 3 emissions of Nexive and Postcon grew annually.
During our reporting process for 2018, we noted that certain transport volumes reported for our Spring business were double
counted. We revised the comparative figures by adjusting the transport volumes and emissions for the related trade lanes. This
resulted in a decrease of our 2017 scope 3 emissions of 8 kilotonnes.
In 2018 we calculated our baseline emissions for Science Based Targetting (SBT). We found that a part of our subcontracted
TGN transport kilometres to external parties have not been included in our annual reporting. We obtained the information for 2018
resulting in 19 ktCO2 which we added to our 2018 emissions. Due to the lack of data, we also assumed this amount of emissions was
omitted in our comparative figures. As TGN has grown over the past few years, we deem this a conservative approach.
Methodology change customer satisfaction
In 2018, we started using a revised method for measuring customer satisfaction. Instead of using a combined question
measurement, a single question measurement was used. The overview below provides insight into the comparative figures 2014
until 2017, reported and revised.
PostNL
Effect of data revision methodology change
2014 - 2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Before data revision

85%

86%

87%

88%

82%

After data revision

80%

84%

86%

85%

82%

Customer value
Satisfied customers (in %)

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

182

Reporting processes, systems and controls
PostNL uses formalised processes to record, validate and consolidate information in order to report non-financial performance
data. PostNL integrated non-financials in the regular planning and control cycle, including budgeting, target setting and periodic
performance monitoring. We collect and report non-financial performance data on selected key performance indicators on a
monthly basis. Other indicators are reported biannually or annually depending on the nature of the indicators.
Similar to financial reporting, all reporting entities are responsible for their non-financial performance data and implement actions
to steer on results. Although the majority of non-financial information is recorded in central PostNL systems, for several entities and
indicators other systems are used. For our consolidation processes, we use an IT system covering both financial and non-financial
data. For some performance indicators, such as employee engagement and loyalty, the data is prepared and collected centrally.
We strive to report non-financial performance data based on actuals as much as possible. We focus on our key performance
indicators. On other performance indicators, we may use extrapolation of results of big entities to determine the performance of
smaller entities. This reduces the administrative tasks for smaller entities. We only use this method in cases where the
extrapolations are reasonably predictable. In our data coverage table in Appendix 2 we provide insight into the information
reported based on extrapolation.
In order to ensure that the data reported by different entities is consistent and of high quality, PostNL developed company-wide
reporting definitions for each performance indicator. In addition, we implemented formal quality controls related to the reported
data in the system for both the data owners (first line of defence) and control department (second line of defence). This includes
decentral and central analytical procedures to evaluate the accuracy and completeness of reported data, as well as seeking
explanations for unexpected trends in performance. PostNL uses its controls in a company-wide financial and non-financial internal
control framework.

Forward-looking information
Some statements in this Annual Report are 'forward-looking statements'. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk
and uncertainty because they relate to and depend on circumstances that occur in the future. These forward-looking statements
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are beyond PostNL’s control and impossible to predict and
may cause actual results to differ materially from any future results expressed or implied. These forward-looking statements are
based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, analyses and projections about the industries in which PostNL operates and
PostNL management’s beliefs and assumptions about future events.
Undue reliance cannot be placed on these forward-looking statements by the reader of this report. These statements only speak as
of the date of this Annual Report and are neither predictions nor guarantees of future events or circumstances. PostNL does not
undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances
after the date of this Annual Report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as may be required under
applicable securities laws.

Assurance
PostNL’s Internal Audit department includes select non-financial information and related controls in the scope of their work.
In addition to the internal controls and internal audit, PostNL engaged EY as our independent external auditor for our financial
statements to provide reasonable assurance on the non-financial information in this Annual Report.
The scope of EY’s assurance includes the non-financial information in the following sections of this Annual Report:
●

●

●

Introduction
Business report (excluding chapter financial value)
Non-financial performance statements (excluding Assurance report of the independent auditor).

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

183

1.4 Guidelines, benchmarks, and initiatives
Our assessment of material topics is also based on dominant topics in guidelines and benchmarks, such as the GRI guidelines; the
ten principles of the UN Global Compact, with respect to human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption, which we support;
and the OECD guidelines. The following guidelines, benchmarks, and initiatives are particularly important for us.

Dow Jones Sustainability Index

Launched in 1999, the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices are the first global indices to track
the financial performance of the leading sustainability-driven companies worldwide. They
provide asset managers and other stakeholders with reliable and objective benchmarks for
managing sustainability portfolios. In 2018, we were given a Bronze Award within the DJSI
and were ranked in the top-10 of the Transport and Transportation industry. For further
information, see www.sustainability-index.com.

Carbon Disclosure Project

CDP is a not-for-profit charity that runs the global disclosure system for investors,
companies, cities, states and regions to manage their environmental impacts. Over the past
15 years the organisation has created a system that has resulted in unparalleled
engagement on environmental issues worldwide. In 2018 we were awarded a Level A- score
by the CDP for our climate reporting, improving from 2017's Level B score.

Sustainable Development Goals

The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a collection of 17 global goals set by the
United Nations. The SDGs were established with the aim of ending poverty, protecting the
planet and ensuring prosperity for all. As part of our materiality analysis, we carried out
desk research on the external environment, including on the SDGs. We have identified two
SDGs that are most relevant for us: Decent work and economic growth, and Climate action.
In chapter 5, Value creation and strategy, we explain in more detail the steps we have taken
to accomplish these goals.

UN Global Compact

The UN Global Compact is an initiative to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt
sustainable and socially responsible policies, and to report on their implementation. The UN
Global Compact is a principle-based framework for businesses, stating ten principles in the
areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Under the Global
Compact, companies are brought together with UN agencies, labour groups and civil
society.

Global Reporting Initiative

The GRI is a multi-stakeholder process and an independent institution whose mission is to
develop and disseminate globally-applicable sustainability reporting guidelines for
voluntary use by organisations that report on the economic, environmental and social
dimensions of their business. The GRI incorporates participation of business, accountancy,
investment, environmental, human rights and research and labour organisations from
around the world. For more information, see www.globalreporting.org.

International Post Corporation

The IPC is the leading service provider of the global postal industry that provides leadersihp
by driving service quality, interoperability and business-critical intelligence to support posts
in defending existing business and expanding into new growth areas. It is a cooperative
association of 24 member postal operators in Asia-Pacific, Europe and North America.

Diversity Charter

The Dutch Diversity Charter was launched in The Hague in July 2015, with 22 employers
from the public and private sector. The Diversity Charter is an essential part of the project
Diversity at Work. Through this project the Dutch Labour Foundation wants to support
employers and employees in the public and private sector in their efforts to increase
diversity in their businesses and work towards a more inclusive environment. PostNL was
one of the original signatories of the Charter.

Talent to the Top

We are active in the Talent to the Top Charter. The Charter was developed in 2008, in close
consultation with the business sector, public bodies and the Ministries of Economic Affairs
and Education, Culture & Science. The aim is to achieve a higher intake, promotion and
retention of female talent in top jobs.

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

184

FIRA

The FIRA Platform is an online register in which companies (suppliers) can display their CSR practices to
their clients (buyers). The FIRA Platform is closely aligned with international standards, such as ISO
26000, ISO 20400, AA1000 and GRI. PostNL was audited on the basis of a complete CSR report.

BREEAM

BREEAM, Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method, is a globally-recognised
method for assessing, rating and certifying the sustainability of buildings. The assessment covers a
range of environmental issues, including evaluating energy and water use, health and wellbeing,
pollution, transport, materials, waste, ecology and management processes. Buildings are rated and
certified on a scale of 'Pass', 'Good', 'Very Good', 'Excellent' and 'Outstanding'. We built our most recent
parcel distribution and processing centres in accordance with BREEAM 'Outstanding’.

Lean & Green

Lean & Green is Europe’s leading program for sustainable logistics. It stimulates organisations to
achieve a higher level of sustainability, by taking measures that are not only cost efficient, but also
focused on reducing the environmental impact, resulting in a more efficient logistical process. Lean &
Green is operated by Connect, an independent network for smart, sustainable and social mobility, and
logistics. In 2018, we were awarded a Lean & Green second star.

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

185

Section 2: Customer value performance indicators
PostNL
Customer indicators
2014 - 2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Highly satisfied customers

not reported

not reported

38%

41%

30%

Progress on transformation (share of revenues related to e-commerce)

not reported

not reported

40%

44%

48%

97%

96%

96%

95%

95%

Satisfied customers

80%

84%

86%

85%

82%

Reputation score

64.5

67.7

67.8

69.7

67.7

Key Performance Indicators

Delivery quality of Mail in the Netherlands (preliminary)
Other Performance Indicators

2.1 Customer satisfaction and reputation
Customer satisfaction
We measure customer satisfaction twice a year through an online survey performed by an independent external research
company. For 2018, we switched to a new service provider to measure our customer satisfaction. Over 69,000 customers, more
than double the amount surveyed in 2017 were invited to participate. This includes both consumers and business customers of our
mail and parcels operations. The response rate remained stable at 9% in 2018. International customers are not included. In our
survey, we ask our customer about their opinion about various elements of our business. This includes but is not limited to the
timeliness and quality of our delivery, our communication, the quality of our service and help desks.
As explained in the section data revision, we changed the method of measurement of customer satisfaction from combined to
single question measurement, which impacted the comparative figures. We also introduced the percentage of highly satisfied
customers for the first time as a key performance indicator in 2018. This indicator was already presented using the single question
measurement method in the Annual Report of 2017.
Where traditionally customers would only use mail or parcel services, the rise of omnichannel means that today’s customers use a
range of products and services across the entire company. During their customer journey, customers interact with us through
multiple channels and often switch between channels. For example, when receiving a parcel it is not uncommon for customers to
use a combination of our website, the PostNL app and our retail locations. This is why we are focusing on creating a unique and
personalised customer experience that provides them with a uniform and consistent experience, no matter how, where or when
they interact with us. The decrease in customer satisfaction is explained in chapter 6: Customer value, in the Key results and
highlights section.
Reputation score
In addition to customer satisfaction, we also monitor our corporate reputation. The independent Reputation Institute calculates the
RepTrak pulse score for our Dutch operations, based on a representative sample of respondents from Dutch society. The score is
determined based on opinions of different stakeholders, including customers and employees. After increasing over four
consecutive years, we noted a slight decrease of our reputation score in 2018.The drop in customer satisfaction and employee
engagement negatively influenced the 2018 results. With specific focus on customers and employees in our strategy, we aim to
strengthen our brand and our reputation going forward.

2.2 Progress on transformation
We use the share of e-commerce related revenues from contracts with customers of total revenues as a measure to evaluate our
progress on transformation to the logistics and postal solutions provider in the Benelux. We use a simplified method to calculate our
progress, which gives a conservative score on our performance. Some of our Mail services are also related to e-commerce. These
revenues don't influence the overall view on our progress. We also use different qualitative factors to evaluate the progress. More
information about the developments in relation to our progress can be found in chapter 6: Customer value.

2.3 Delivery quality Mail in the Netherlands
Under the USO, PostNL delivers mail posted in letterboxes across the country five days a week. For funeral mail this is six days a
week. The USO prescribes that 95% of this mail needs to be delivered by the next day. Although we experienced challenges in our
mail delivery, for example due to temporary shortage of mail deliverers in certain areas in the Netherlands, the results show that we
met this target in 2018. For information is provided in chapter 6: Customer value.

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

186

Section 3: Operational value performance indicators
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Key Performance Indicators
Volume development Parcels (in millions of items)
Volume development Mail (in millions of items)
Cost savings Mail (in € millions)

142

156

177

207

251

2,705

2,401

2,213

1,994

1,781

127

85

64

56

48

91%

96%

100%

100%

100%

Other Performance Indicators
ISO 9001 certification (percentage of total FTE working in certified sites)

3.1 Volume development
We use the volumes of mail and parcels to calculate our revenue. Therefore, we included disclosures on the quantitative volume
developments are included in chapter 10: Financial value. One of our strategic objectives is to help our customer grow their
business. More information on our qualitative evaluation and examples on our efforts to manage our volumes can be found in
chapter 6: Customer value and chapter 7: Operational value.

3.2 Cost savings
In 2018 we achieved further cost savings of €48 million, slightly below our initial guidance of between €50 million and €70 million.
More information about cost savings can be found in chapter 10: Financial value. We also describe the main cost saving initiatives in
chapter 7: Operational value.

3.3 Quality management system
We also use our quality management system to manage overall quality. ISO 9001 provides guidance for managing continuous
improvement across the company, with a focus on providing better service and quality. We encourage all PostNL companies
to obtain independent ISO 9001 certification to confirm the appropriateness of our management system. In 2018, the percentage
of FTEs working at ISO 9001-certified sites increased to 100%.

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

187

Section 4: Social value performance indicators
4.1 Employee engagement, loyalty and culture
PostNL
Employee engagement
2014 - 2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Employee engagement (% of engaged employees)

60%

64%

68%

67%

65%

Employee loyalty (% of employees expected to stay)

83%

86%

88%

86%

88%

not reported

55

58

58

57

Culture index

PostNL measures its company-wide employee engagement through an annual survey. For 2018, we added employee loyalty as a
key performance indicator to measure the commitment of our workforce.This indicator is measured based on the response of our
employees when asked if they plan to stay with PostNL.
The annual survey is company-wide and only included employees with a labour agreement with PostNL. In 2018, employee
engagement decreased to 65% (2017: 67%), while employee loyalty increased to 88% (2017: 86%).
For a large group of hired people, namely deliverers working for delivery partners, we annually measure satisfaction through a
collaboration barometer. This Dutch survey provides valuable insights on where we can improve.
More information can be found in chapter 8: Social value, in the Making connections section.
At PostNL, caring for everyone who works for and with us is the foundation of good employment. Creating an atmosphere where
people are passionate and proud to work for PostNL makes our company stronger and more future-proof. This is why we believe
having the right culture and behaviour is critical for the successful transformation of our company. Our score card includes different
behavioural aspects: being customer focused, being results driven, working together, and innovating and improving. In 2018 the
culture index decreased slightly to 57 (2017: 58).

4.2 Employment
PostNL
Workforce
2014 - 2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

48,355

45,145

41,497

38,965

37,785

1,842

1,897

0

0

0

Headcount in Non Financial reporting scope

46,513

43,248

41,497

38,965

37,785

Full time equivalents (FTE)

23,023

21,798

20,730

20,791

20,421

1,409

1,426

0

0

0

21,614

20,372

20,730

20,791

20,421

Workforce
Headcount
Headcount out of Non Financial reporting scope

FTE out of Non Financial reporting scope
FTE in Non Financial reporting scope

The total workforce of PostNL decreased both in terms of headcount and FTEs. The decrease at the Mail division is partially offset
by the increase at the Parcel division.

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

188

PostNL
New hires and turnover
2014 - 2018, as indicated
2014

2015

2016

2018

2017

Male

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

Workforce
by gender

28,456

23,812

24703

21810

22226

21022

21,021

20,476

19,612

19,353

Workforce
at Jan 1

52,267

46,513

43,248

38,965

41,497

New
hires
< 30

4,177

3,409

3,332

3,136

2,919

2,533

3,216

2,599

3,983

2,789

30-50

1,697

2,823

1,782

3,139

1,618

2,999

1,629

2,941

1,959

2,733

>50

1,818

1,003

2,251

1,354

2,311

1,608

1,892

1,620

2,361

1,707

Total new
hires

7,692

7,235

7,365

7,629

6,848

7,140

6,736

7,160

8,303

7,229

% of total
headcount

27%

30%

30%

35%

31%

34%

32%

35%

42%

37%

Total
combined

14,927

14,994

13,988

15,533

13,896

Total
turnover
< 30

5,723

4,142

4,532

3,499

3,389

2,759

3,387

2,609

3,623

2,744

30-50

2,463

3,369

2,073

3,121

1,788

2,908

1,952

3,204

1,908

3,161

>50

3,259

1,725

3,237

1,797

2,911

1,984

3,004

2,272

2,893

2,385

Total
turnover

11,445

9,237

9,842

8,417

8,088

7,651

8,343

8,085

8,423

8,290

% of total
headcount

40%

39%

40%

39%

36%

36%

40%

39%

43%

43%

Total
combined

20,682

18,259

15,739

16,713

16,428

Male

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

Workforce
by gender

24703

21810

22226

21022

20986

20511

19,414

19,551

19,492

18,293

Workforce
at Dec 31

46,513

43,248

41,497

38,965

37,785

In line with prior years we saw a decline in our headcount in 2018. The relative decrease of 3% is lower than in 2017 (6%). In mail
the headcount reduced due to restructuring, while we grew our employee base in Parcels.
Over 2018, the employee turnover rate further increased and is much higher than we would like to see. We employ many people,
especially in Mail, with small contracts. In the current economic environment with extreme low unemployment rates, people can
easily switch jobs. We noted that the turnover rate was particularly high among new joiners. In 2018 we increased our efforts to
make better connections with our (new) employees. We want to be a good employer offering interesting jobs for people. With the
introduction of the New mail route (see chapter 5: Value creation and strategy, last page) we will offer our employees in mail larger
work packages and more flexibility in the new model. Within Parcels, our focus is to manage the high workload and capacity
challenges. We started different initiatives to improve our working conditions. Our goal is to bend the trend of the last two years by
reducing the employee turnover rate for 2019.
More information about developments in our workforce and examples of improvement initiatives can be found in chapter 8: Social
value, paragraph: Managing personnel capacity.

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

189

4.3 Recruitment and career development
PostNL
Recruitement and career development
2014 - 2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

19

22

17

17

22

Recruitement and career development
Training hours per FTE

The number of training hours per FTE increased significantly in 2018 to 22 (2017: 17). Since the introduction in 2017 of our online
learning platform Mijn Leerplein, 2018 was the first year employees had a full-year's access to the expanded learning environment.
We launched several campaigns during the year to build awareness with our employees on the broad learning possibilities within
the company. Compared to 2017, we saw an increase in introductory trainings and external trainings from external learning
partners. At the same time, in 2018 we introduced mandatory online trainings for office staff on the privacy law (GDPR) and
integrity. We saw a sharp increase in the number of employees who voluntarily took agile trainings, as part of the roll-out of the
change program around agile ways of working. As explained in chapter 8, Social value, we also put more focus on behavioural
trainings in 2018, for example on multi-cultural craftsmanship.

4.4 Diversity and inclusion
PostNL
Diversity and inclusion
2014 - 2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

24%

25%

24%

21%

21%

Diversity and inclusion
Percentage of females in management positions

The company-wide percentage of females in management positions remained stable at 21%. Over 40% of our Executive
Committee is female. We have initiatives in place, such as the Agora network and the Women Inclusion Network (WIN), to promote
diversity in the workplace. In the management layer just below executive level, the percentage of females is lower company-wide.
This is an area of focus for the coming years, as we aim to have a share of females in our management layers that better reflect the
share of females in our workforce. We have specific programs in the Netherlands, for example to contribute to the Talent to the Top
Charter.

4.5 Health and Safety
PostNL
Health and safety
2014 - 2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Health and safety
2

3

1

1

2

1.7

2.5

2.5

3.1

2.3

Absenteeism (% of total working hours)

5.3%

5.0%

5.0%

5.2%

5.9%

OHSAS 18001 certification (% of FTE working in certified sites)

88%

94%

100%

100%

100%

Fatal accidents
Lost time accidents - per 100 FTEs

Despite our efforts and initiatives, we deeply regret having to report two fatal accidents across our Parcels operations in 2018
(2017: 1).
We measure the lost time accidents rate only of our own employees. We do not have information on the working hours of deliverers
hired externally. In 2018 we had both internally and externally monitored our safety performance, which reduced the number of
lost time accidents per 100 FTEs to 2.3 (2017: 3.1). This was caused by better communication on safe behaviour, especially for
scooter deliverers. In 2019 we aim to focus less on lost time accidents, but broaden the scope to all accidents that result in injuries.
This is in line with the new GRI403 standard. This also means we are looking to include serious accidents as of 2019.
The absenteeism rates increased to 5.9% (2017: 5.2%). See chapter 8: Social value for more information.
We obtained the OHSAS certificate for our health and safety policies and procedures.

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

190

Section 5: Environmental value performance indicators
5.1 CO2 efficiency index
PostNL
CO2 efficiency index
2014 - 2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

53.5

50.4

45.7

40.2

38.6

CO2 efficiency index
CO2 efficiency index (2007=100)

As a postal and logistic solutions provider, it is clear we have an impact on the environment, and that our operations emit carbon as
well as other emissions. Our aim is to minimise our environmental impact by, for example, introducing environmentally friendly
delivery methods and offering efficient packaging to decrease the amount of air that is transported. In our risk management
process we evaluate physical, regulatory and reputational climate change-related risks. We identified that our main risks relate to
our environmental impact in cities, for example due to possible future regulatory measures. No significant physical and reputational
risks were identified during 2018.
Since 2008, we use the CO2 efficiency index to measure our relative performance. The index consists of three components:
buildings, small trucks and vans, and large trucks. We achieved our ambition to reduce the CO2 efficiency index to 45 by 2020 (base
year 2007 = 100). In 2018, we realised a CO2 efficiency index of 38.6, well under our 2020 ambition. The main improvement in the
CO2 efficiency index in 2018 was as a result of the investment in additional biogas vehicles, which we increased from 731 to 828. For
large trucks we introduced 17 LNG vehicles to our fleet. Below we explain the progress made on each of the components, buildings,
small trucks and vans, and large trucks, in more detail.

5.2 CO2 efficiency buildings
PostNL
Buildings
2014 - 2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Buildings
9.8

7.0

0.6

1.6

0.7

Electricity usage in KwH/m² building

105

103

105

105

112

Sustainable electricity usage (as % of total electricity usage)

89%

90%

94%

100%

100%

6.2

7.0

7.1

6.0

6.2

Efficiency (kg CO2 per m² )

Gas usage in m³/m² building

In 2018, we used 84 million KwH of electricity (2017: 83 million) and our gas consumption fell to 3.5 million cubic metres (2017: 3.6
million). We aim to minimise our environmental impact and continued to install solar panels on all our parcel sorting and
distribution centres in 2018. We will continue to fit solar panels on new parcel sorting and distribution centres going forward. In
addition to our energy reduction initiatives, we also stimulate the use of sustainable electricity in our buildings. We also partly offset
the remaining CO2 emissions of our building using Guarantee of Origins for renewable energy and Gold Standard credits.
To aid long-term comparability of emissions, we use a correction factor called ‘degree days’ to eliminate the external effect of
differences in average temperatures between years. This correction factor was used in the CO2 efficiency numbers presented above
(kg CO2/m2).
While our absolute gas consumption decreased by compared to 2017 by 5%, we used 1% more electricity in 2018. We closed down
6 mail preparation centres. These centres were heated by gas and consumed relatively low amounts of electricity as we did not
use heavy machinery. We merged activities from different locations which improved the use of our buildings. Within Parcels, we
opened three sorting centres and increased the sorting capacity in existing sorting centres. The parcel sorting centres are heated
by electricity driven heat pumps and do not use natural gas for heating. Overall, the improvement in capacity utilisation of buildings
led to an increase in electricity usage per m2 of 4%, while the overall electricity consumption increased by only 1%. For gas, we
reduced our absolute consumption by 5%, while the relative consumption per m2 increased by 2%.

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

191

5.3 CO2 efficiency trucks
PostNL
Trucks
2014 - 2018
2016

2017

2018

2014

2015

243

234

245

175

168

9.0

9.3

10.0

10.6

11.7

Small trucks and vans
Efficiency (gr CO2 per km )
Fuel usage liters diesel/100 km
Large trucks
Efficiency (gr CO2 per km )

711

714

716

698

695

Fuel usage liters diesel/100 km

26.7

26.7

26.7

26.1

26.2

The CO2 efficiency of small trucks and vans improved in 2018 to 168 (2017: 175). The improvement was due to the introduction of
additional biogas vehicles, as well as the introduction of electric vehicles.
Going forward we will work towards delivering in the most efficient and sustainable way possible. We plan to continue to invest in
biogas vehicles. At the same time we aim to increase the number of electric vans. For our last-mile delivery, we continue to look for
the optimum mix of vehicles. One example is the replacement of vans by light electric freight transport vehicles (Licht electrische
vrachtvoertuigen, or LEVV) such as e-cargo bikes, e-scooters and e-bikes. This development will contribute to our long-term
objective to deliver emission-free in the last mile by 2030.
In 2018 the CO2 efficiency of large trucks improved to 695 (2017: 698). We started to use a number of new LNG trucks in our fleet,
which have lower CO2 emissions than conventional diesel trucks. We plan to further increase these numbers in 2019.

5.4 Air quality
PostNL
Air quality
2014 - 2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Small trucks and vans
15,979

14,375

13,766

12,501

9,949

Nox emissions (gr/km)

0.30

0.28

0.27

0.24

0.19

PM10 emissions in kg

662

323

263

267

269

PM10 emissions in (gr/km)

0.01

0.01

0.01

0.01

0.01

Nox emissions in kg

Large trucks
35,915

28,317

25,654

25,167

25,986

Nox emissions (gr/km)

1.29

1.07

0.94

0.87

0.83

PM10 emissions in kg

418

362

352

361

382

PM10 emissions in (gr/km)

0.02

0.01

0.01

0.01

0.01

51,894

42,692

39,420

37,668

35,935

0.64

0.55

0.50

0.46

0.43

1,080

685

615

628

651

0.01

0.01

0.01

0.01

0.01

Nox emissions in kg

Total
Nox emissions in kg
Nox emissions (gr/km)
PM10 emissions in kg
PM10 emissions in (gr/km)

The developments in air quality are directly related to the type of vehicles we use. Therefore, the explanation of trends in the table
above is combined with the explanation in trend in the table on our compliance with euro norms on the next page.

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

192

PostNL
Compliance with Euro emission norms
2014 - 2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Small trucks and vans
Vehicles complying with Euro 6

0%

2%

12%

46%

76%

Vehicles complying with Euro 5

96%

98%

88%

54%

24%

4%

0%

0%

0%

0%

Vehicles complying with Euro 6

53%

57%

68%

68%

73%

Vehicles complying with Euro 5

47%

43%

32%

32%

27%

Vehicles not complying with Euro 6 or Euro 5
Large trucks

Total
Vehicles complying with Euro 6

6%

8%

19%

48%

76%

Vehicles complying with Euro 5

91%

92%

81%

52%

24%

4%

0%

0%

0%

0%

Vehicles not complying with Euro 6 or Euro 5

In 2018 we further increased the percentage of vehicles complying with Euro 6 emission standards. In small trucks and vans we
have more options for cleaner vehicles, therefore the share of euro 6 compliant vehicles grew harder than for our large trucks. This
improvement resulted in both lower NOx (nitrous oxides) and PM10 (soot) emissions per kilometre. Due to the sharp increase in
parcel volumes, we had to invest in additional large trucks. These trucks are less clean than our small trucks and vans, which lead to
an increase in our absolute NOx and PM10 emissions. The increase in absolute NOx emissions caused by our large trucks is offset by
the further reduction realised for our small trucks and vans due to biogas vehicles. In 2018, we started investing in large trucks
fueled by liquified natural gas (LNG), which is among the cleanest available options. We aim to expand the use of LNG trucks in
order to reduce our emissions, both related to climate change and air quality.

5.5 Carbon footprint
PostNL
Carbon footprint
2014 - 2018, in ktonnes CO2e
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

6

Small trucks and vans
Absolute carbon footprint
Heating (gas, heating fuel)

9

8

8

7

Small trucks and vans

13

13

13

9

9

Large trucks

20

19

20

20

22

Scope 1 gross GHG emissions

42

40

41

36

37

Compensated carbon emissions buildings (credits)

(2)

(2)

(2)

(6)

(6)

Compensated carbon emissions greengas trucks (credits)

(0)

(1)

(0)

0

0

Scope 1 net GHG emissions

40

37

39

30

31

District heating
Electricity (including electric vehicles)

1

1

1

0

0

39

36

41

38

39

40

37

42

38

39

(35)

(32)

(38)

(38)

(39)

Compensated carbon emissions buildings (credits)

(6)

(6)

(6)

0

0

Scope 2 net GHG emissions

(1)

(1)

(2)

0

0

Company cars

7

7

4

5

6

Business travel by air

1

1

1

0

0

Independent parcel deliverers and other subcontracters

137

224

194

166

154

Scope 3 gross GHG emissions

Scope 2 gross GHG emissions
Sustainably sourced carbon emissions (sustainable electricity)

145

232

199

171

160

Compensated carbon emissions company cars (credits)

(7)

(7)

(4)

(5)

(6)

Compensated carbon emissions business travel by air (credits)

(1)

(1)

(1)

(0)

(0)

137

224

194

166

154

PostNL's own gross carbon footprint (total scope 1 and 2)

82

77

83

74

76

PostNL's net carbon footprint (total scope 1 and 2)

39

36

37

30

31

PostNL's total gross carbon footprint (total scope 1, 2 and 3)

227

309

282

245

236

PostNL's net gross carbon footprint (total scope 1, 2 and 3)

176

260

231

196

185

Scope 3 net GHG emissions

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

193

Scope 1
Our gross scope 1 emissions increased slightly in 2018. The carbon emissions of our large trucks increased by 2 kilotonnes, due
to the higher volumes of parcels we transported. This was partly offset by introducing LNG trucks with lower emissions. We aim to
expand our LNG fleet in 2019. Our small trucks also drove more kilometers in 2018, causing more CO2 emissions, but this was offset
by introducing more biogas and electric vehicles. The decrease in natural gas consumption led to a decrease of 1 kilotonne direct
CO2 emissions.
Scope 2
Our gross scope 2 emissions increased by 1 kilotonne in 2018 to 39 kilotonnes. Our nominal electricity usage increased
to approximately 84 million KwH in 2018 compared to 83 million KwH in 2017. At a limited number of locations, we use district
heating. The carbon emissions of district heating were lower than one kilotonne. We stimulate the use of sustainable electricity in
our buildings. In addition, we offset the remaining CO2 emissions of our buildings using Guarantee of Origins for renewable energy.
This resulted in net scope 2 emissions of 0 kilotonnes.
Scope 3
Our gross scope 3 emissions decreased to 160 kilotonnes in 2018 (2017: 171 kilotonnes) and relate to the emissions from our
external delivery partners. The decrease in 2018 can be explained by:
●

●

●

●

A decline in international air freight resulting from a decline in the export of milk powder to China and a move from air freight to
transportation by trucks within Europe: Decrease of 10 ktCO2
A decrease of emissions resulting from lower international mail volumes in line with overall mail volume decline: Decrease of 9
ktCO2
Parcel volume growth increasing the emissions from external delivery partners in the Netherlands: Increase of 5 ktCO2.
Other small fluctuations: Increase of 3 ktCO2

Additionally, we purchased Gold Standard credits to offset 6 kilotonnes of carbon emissions from company cars and business travel,
resulting in a net scope 3 CO2 emissions of 154 kilotonnes (2017: 166 kilotonnes).

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

194

5.6 Environmental Management system
PostNL
Other environmental indicators
2014 - 2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

90%

95%

100%

100%

100%

Other environmetal indicators
ISO 14001 certification (percentage of total FTE working in certified sites)

Our environmental management systems help us to continuously improve our environmental performance and management
across the company. As in 2017, in 2018 all PostNL employees worked in ISO14001-certified locations.

PostNL Driving transition | 19 Non-financial statements

195

Assurance report of the independent auditor
To: the Shareholders and members of the Supervisory Board of PostNL N.V.

Our opinion
We have audited the non-financial information in the accompanying annual report for the year 2018 of PostNL N.V. at The Hague.
An audit is aimed at obtaining a reasonable level of assurance.
In our opinion, the non-financial information presents, in all material respects, a reliable and adequate view of:
●

●

the policy and business operations with regard to corporate responsibility
the thereto related events and achievements for the year 2018,

in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Standards (option Core) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and applied
supplemental reporting criteria as disclosed in chapter Non-financial statements of the annual report.
The non-financial information consists of the following sections in the annual report: Introduction, Business report (excluding
chapter Financial value) and chapter Non-financial statements.

Basis for our opinion
We have performed our audit on the non-financial information in accordance with Dutch law, including Dutch Standard 3810N,
“Assurance-opdrachten inzake maatschappelijke verslagen” (Assurance engagements relating to sustainability reports), which is a
specific Dutch Standard that is based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, “Assurance
Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. Our responsibilities under this standard are further
described in the section “Our responsibilities for the audit of the non-financial information” of our report.
We are independent of PostNL N.V. in accordance with the “Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij
assurance-opdrachten” (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and other
relevant independence requirements in the Netherlands. This includes that we do not perform any activities that could result in a
conflict of interest with our independent assurance engagement. Furthermore we have complied with the “Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants” (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics).
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Reporting criteria
The non-financial information needs to be read and understood together with the reporting criteria. PostNL N.V. is solely
responsible for selecting and applying these reporting criteria, taking into account applicable law and regulations related to
reporting.
The reporting criteria used for the preparation of the non-financial information are the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the
GRI and the applied supplemental reporting criteria as disclosed in chapter Non-financial statements of the annual report.

Materiality
Based on our professional judgement we determined materiality levels for each relevant part of the non-financial information and
for the non-financial information as a whole. When evaluating our materiality levels, we have taken into account quantitative and
qualitative considerations as well as the relevance of information for both stakeholders and the company.
We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements which are identified during the audit and which in our view must be
reported on quantitative or qualitative grounds, would be reported to them.

Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the non-financial
information. We have communicated the key audit matters to the Supervisory Board. The key audit matters are not a
comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed.
The key audit matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the non-financial information as a whole and in forming our
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

PostNL Driving transition | Assurance report of the independent auditor

196

Key audit matter

How our assurance engagement addressed the matter

Key observations

Estimations and assumptions used
for calculating CO2 scope 3
emissions
External delivery partners are a
material part of PostNL’s CO2
emissions. The methodology for
calculating the CO2 emissions of
these external delivery partners is
based on the Greenhouse Gas
protocol of the World Resource
Institute (WRI)/World Business
Council for Sustainable
Development (WBCSD) and uses, in
the absence of complete
information from its external
delivery partners, estimates and
underlying assumptions to report
scope 3 CO2 emissions.

Our procedures focused on understanding
and evaluating the reasonableness of the
estimates and assumptions used.
We assessed the sufficiency of related
disclosures, including information on
inherent limitations, and the consistent use
compared to prior year.

We concur with the estimates and
assumptions used in calculating the
scope 3 CO2 emissions and the
sufficiency of the related
disclosures. In addition, we
determined that the assumptions
and estimations used did not
change compared to prior year.

Our procedures focused on evaluating
whether the methodology used by the third
party is suitable and consistently applied.
We assessed the sufficiency of related
disclosures and the consistent use compared
to prior year.

We concur with the methodologies
applied, the sufficiency of the
related disclosures and determined
that the methodology used did not
change compared to prior year.

Methodology underlying indicators
measured by third parties
The reputation, employee
engagement and the customer
satisfaction indicators are at request
of PostNL measured by third
parties. The outcome is based on
the methodology used by these
third parties.

Limitations to the scope of our audit
The non-financial information includes prospective information such as ambitions, strategy, plans, expectations and estimates and
risk assessments. Inherent to prospective information, the actual future results are uncertain. We do not provide any assurance on
the assumptions and achievability of prospective non-financial information.
The references to external sources or websites in the non-financial information are not part of the information as audited by us. We
therefore do not provide assurance on this information.

Responsibilities of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board for the non-financial
information
The Board of Management is responsible for the preparation of the non-financial information in accordance with the reporting
criteria as included in the section Reporting criteria, including the identification of stakeholders and the definition of material
matters. The choices made by the Board of Management regarding the scope of the non-financial information and the reporting
policy are summarized in chapter Non-financial statements of the annual report.
The Board of Management is also responsible for such internal control as the Board of Management determines is necessary to
enable the preparation of the non-financial information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or errors.
The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the reporting process of PostNL N.V.

Our responsibilities for the audit of the non-financial information
Our responsibility is to plan and perform the audit in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence for
our opinion.
Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all material
errors and fraud.

PostNL Driving transition | Assurance report of the independent auditor

197

We apply the “Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen” (NVKS, Regulations for Quality management systems) and accordingly
maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with
ethical requirements, professional standards and other relevant legal and regulatory requirements.
We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional skepticism throughout the audit performed by a
multi-disciplinary team in accordance with the Dutch assurance standards, ethical requirements and independence requirements.
The procedures of our audit consisted amongst others of:
Performing an analysis of the external environment and obtaining an understanding of relevant social themes and issues, and the
characteristics of the company
Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used, their consistent application and related disclosures in the nonfinancial information. This includes the evaluation of the results of the stakeholders’ dialogue and the reasonableness of estimates
made by management
Obtaining an understanding of the systems and processes for collecting, reporting and consolidating the non-financial
information, including obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to our audit, but not for the purpose of expressing
an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control
Evaluating the procedures performed by the internal audit department of PostNL N.V.
Identifying and assessing the risks that the non-financial information is misleading or unbalanced, or contains material
misstatements, whether due to fraud or errors. Designing and performing further audit procedures responsive to those risks, and
obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk that the non-financial
information is misleading or unbalanced, or the risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than
for one resulting from errors. Fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of
internal control. These further audit procedures consisted amongst others of:
Interviewing management and relevant staff at corporate and division level responsible for strategy, policy and results;
Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing, carrying out internal control procedures on, and consolidating the nonfinancial information;
Determining the nature and extent of the audit procedures for locations. For this, the nature, extent and risk profile of these
locations are decisive. Based thereon we selected the locations to visit. Our visits to Nexive (Milan) and Postcon (Ratingen) are
aimed at, on a local level, validating source data and evaluating the design and implementation of the registration process of
lost time accidents and fatal accidents for both Nexive and Postcon and scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions for Nexive;
Obtaining assurance information that the non-financial information reconciles with underlying records of the company;
Evaluating relevant internal and external documentation, on a test basis, to determine the reliability of the non-financial
information;
Performing an analytical review of the data and trends in the information submitted for consolidation at corporate level.
Reconciling the relevant information with the financial statements
Evaluating the consistency of the non-financial information in scope with other information in the annual report which is not
included in the scope of our audit
Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the non-financial information
Considering whether the non-financial information as a whole, including the disclosures, reflects the purpose of the reporting
criteria used
●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we identify during our audit.
From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board we determine the key audit matters: those matters that were of most
significance in the audit of the non-financial information. We describe these matters in our assurance report unless law or
regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not mentioning it is in the public
interest.
Amsterdam, 25 February 2019
Ernst & Young Accountants LLP
signed by J. Niewold

PostNL Driving transition | Assurance report of the independent auditor

198

Appendices

PostNL Driving transition | Appendices

199

PostNL Driving transition | Appendices

200

Appendix 1: Other non-financial performance
indicators
PostNL
Other non-financial performance indicators
2014 - 2018
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

People indicators
Percentage of females in total headcount
Employees with a disability
Disabled employees as percentage of total headcount

47%

49%

49%

50%

48%

1,261

1,442

1,482

1,631

1,704

3%

3%

4%

4%

5%

Environmental indicators
0.4

0.3

0.3

0.3

0.2

66%

69%

61%

64%

66%

Environmental incidents on site

7

3

8

1

2

Environmental incidents off site

2

1

2

0

2

Waste (tonnes per FTE)
Recycling of waste in percentage of total waste

PostNL Driving transition | Appendix 1: Other non-financial performance indicators

201

Appendix 2: Data coverage table
The periodically reported non-financial data depends on the scope of the entity. Where appropriate certain non-financial data of
medium or limited scope entities is estimated. The tables below show an overview which scoping coverage resulted per line item in
the Non-financial performance statements.

Data coverage
Actual data

Extrapolation

Highly satisfied customers

100%

0%

Progress on transformation

100%

0%

Delivery quality Mail in the Netherlands

100%

0%

Volume development Parcels

100%

0%

Volume development Mail

100%

0%

Cost savings Mail

100%

0%

99%

1%

Employee engagement

100%

0%

Employee loyalty

100%

0%

Headcount in Non Financial reporting scope

100%

0%

FTE in Non Financial reporting scope

100%

0%

Culture index

100%

0%

83%

17%

Customer value

Operational value

ISO 9001 certification
Social value

Training hours per FTE

88%

12%

100%

0%

Lost time accidents - per 100 FTEs

94%

6%

Absenteeism

99%

1%

OHSAS 18001 certification

90%

10%

CO2 efficency index

88%

12%

Scope 1 gross GHG emissions

96%

4%

Scope 1 net GHG emissions

96%

4%

Scope 2 gross GHG emissions

84%

16%

Percentage of females in management positions
Fatal accidents

Environmental value

84%

16%

Scope 3 gross GHG emissions

100%

0%

Scope 3 net GHG emissions

100%

0%

NOx emissions in kg

100%

0%

NOx emissions (gr/km)

100%

0%

PM10 emissions in kg

100%

0%

PM10 emissions in (gr/km)

100%

0%

Vehicles complying with Euro 6

100%

0%

Vehicles complying with Euro 5

100%

0%

99%

1%

Scope 2 net GHG emissions

ISO 14001 certification

PostNL Driving transition | Appendix 2: Data coverage table

202

Appendix 3: Glossary and definitions
Absenteeism
Total hours of absence divided by the total contractual working
hours.

Company cars
Company-owned or leased vehicles at the disposal of an
employee for commuting and business travel.

ACM
Dutch Authority for Consumers and Markets.

Corporate governance
The OECD (see reference in this glossary) defines corporate
governance as the system by which corporations are directed
and controlled. The corporate governance structure specifies
the distribution of rights and responsibilities among different
participants, such as the board, managers, shareholders and
other stakeholders, and defines the rules and procedures for
making decisions. In doing so, it also provides the structure by
which company objectives are set and the means of attaining
those objectives and monitoring performance.

Application programming interfaces (API)
An API specifies how different computer programs should
interact, by clearly defining a set of communication methods
between various software components. We build our own APIs,
which make it easier for our customers to interact with our
software, such as Track & Trace.
Auditor
A chartered accountant (registeraccountant) or other auditor
referred to in section 393 of book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code or an
organisation in which such auditors work together.
Biogas
Biogas is broadly defined as gas consisting of or derived from
biomass. Biogas consists of CO2 that has recently been
extracted from the atmosphere as a result of growing plants
and trees, and therefore does not influence the CO2
concentration in the atmosphere over a longer period of time.
This is in contrast to fossil fuels, such as natural gas or crude oil,
which are stored over millions of years so that their combustion
and subsequent emissions do influence CO2 levels in the
atmosphere.
Business travel
Business travel refers to all business-related air travel.
Carbon neutral
Carbon neutral means that the net CO2 equivalent emissions
from activities are zero.
Carbon-neutral electricity
Carbon neutral electricity is electricity from ‘green’ or
‘renewable’ sources, such as solar, wind, geothermal, biomass,
hydroelectric and ocean energy, purchased during the
reporting period for power and lighting of all company locations
(where this can be established from utility suppliers’ invoices or
other means). It does not include nuclear electricity.
CO2 efficiency
CO2 efficiency expresses the efficiency of PostNL’s business in
terms of carbon emissions related to the number of square
meters of buildings or the amount of kilometers driven by
trucks and vans.

PostNL Driving transition | Appendix 2: Data coverage table

Corporate responsibility (CR)
Corporate responsibility is the umbrella term for the obligation
a company has to consider the social (corporate social
responsibility) and environmental (sustainability) impact of its
activities and to go beyond this obligation in the treatment of
economic, environmental and social activities to sustain its
operations, financial performance and ultimately its reputation.
Culture index
Employees indicate in a survey the degree to which they
recognise desired behaviour in the four cultural topics within
the organisation. The culture index is calculated by averaging
the topic specific scores.
Customer satisfaction
Customer satisfaction is an indicator of customer opinion
towards the services we provided in the reporting period. We
measure and categorise customer satisfaction into ‘satisfied
customers’ and ‘highly satisfied customers’ through an online
survey, which is carried out by an independent research
company twice per year.
Delivery quality
Delivery of a consignment within the time frame set for the
service in question. An independent research firm tests our
delivery process, by sending trackable letters through our
network. These letters are scanned along the entire sorting
process, enabling us to identify any delays.
Digitalisation
This refers to the digital transformation of society in which
digital information and communication play an increasingly
important role in all facets of life. This is different from
digitisation, which refers to the transformation of analogue
information into digital information. This process is necessary
for the processing, modelling, and storage of data.

203

Disabled employees
Disabled employees are employees on the payroll whose
medical condition has been recognised by the relevant
authorities as a disability.
Dow Jones Sustainability Indices
Launched in 1999, the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices are the
first global indices to track the financial performance of the
leading sustainability-driven companies worldwide. They
provide asset managers and other stakeholders with reliable
and objective benchmarks for managing sustainability
portfolios. For further information, see
www.sustainability-index.com.

which person (employee or third party) is a casualty.
Full-time equivalents (FTEs)
FTEs refer to the total number of hours worked by the
headcount divided by the local number of contract hours (e.g.
40 p/w or 196 p/m).
General data protection regulation (GDPR)
The GDPR is an EU regulation (Algemene Verordening
Gegevensbescherming - AGV in Dutch) aiming to protect all EU
citizens from privacy and data breaches in today’s data-driven
world. More can be found
on https://eugdpr.org/the-regulation/

E-commerce
The online buying and selling of products and service by
businesses and consumers.

General Meeting of Shareholders
The meeting of shareholders and other persons entitled to
attend meetings.

Employee engagement
Employee engagement refers to the number of employees
(employed by PostNL for three months or more) who stated in
the employee engagement survey that they were ‘engaged’ or
‘more than engaged’ by PostNL as an employer. An ‘engaged
employee’ is one who feels connected to the company, is
enthusiastic about its work, and actively aims to improve the
company and its reputation.

Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
The GRI is a multi-stakeholder process and an independent
institution whose mission is to develop and disseminate
globally-applicable sustainability reporting guidelines for
voluntary use by organisations that report on the economic,
environmental and social dimensions of their business. The GRI
incorporates participation of business, accountancy,
investment, environmental, human rights and research and
labour organisations from around the world. The GRI began in
1997 in partnership with the United Nations and became an
independent body in 2002. It continues to collaborate with the
United Nations Environment Programme and works with the
United Nations Global Compact. For more information, see
www.globalreporting.org.

Employee loyalty
The number of employees (employed by PostNL for three
months or more) who stated in the employee engagement
survey that they expect to stay within PostNL or stated not to
expect to leave PostNL.
Environmental incident
An environmental incident is an incident that has led to the
pollution of soil, water or air. This includes failures, breakdowns,
floods, spillages, leaks and so forth. Environmental incidents are
divided into onsite and offsite incidents. Onsite incidents occur
at sorting and delivery centres, hubs, offices and other
locations owned, leased, rented or operated directly by PostNL.
Offsite incidents occur away from sorting and delivery centres,
hubs, offices and other locations owned, leased, rented or
operated directly by PostNL.

Green gas
Green gas is a sustainable variant of natural gas and is produced
by upgrading biogas to the same quality as natural gas. Green
gas is a renewable fuel, which is produced cleanly.

European emission standards
Euro 4, Euro 5 and Euro 6 are mandatory European emission
standards (EU directives) applicable to new road vehicles sold
in the European Union. They define levels of vehicular
emissions such as nitrogen oxides (NOx) and particulate matter

Group company
A group company as defined in article 2:24b of the Dutch Civil
Code.

(PM10).
Fatal accidents
The death of any person because of an occupational accident.
An occupational accident is an unexpected and unplanned
occurrence, including acts of violence, arising out of or in
connection with work activities performed for PostNL. It
doesn’t matter where the fatal accident has taken place or

PostNL Driving transition | Appendix 2: Data coverage table

Greenhouse Gas Protocol
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) was established
in 1998 to develop internationally-accepted accounting and
reporting standards for greenhouse gas emissions
of companies.

Headcount
Headcount is the number of employees on the payroll in active
duty working for fully consolidated companies.
IFRS
International Financial Reporting Standards.
IFRS-EU
IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.

204

Internal promotion
The number of PostNL employees appointed to vacancies in
management positions at the end of a reporting period. This
refers to the number of actual appointments, not the number of
FTE positions.
Internet of Things (IoT)
The Internet of Things (IoT) is the network of devices that
connects online and shares data. This includes vehicles,
buildings, white goods (such as fridges), and even clothes,
which contain electronics, software, sensors, and network
connectivity. The IoT allows objects to be sensed and
controlled remotely across existing network infrastructure,
creating opportunities for more direct integration of the
physical world into computer-based systems, resulting in
improved efficiency, economic growth, and innovations.
Estimates are that the IoT will consist of almost 50 billion
objects by 2020.
Investors in People (IiP)
Developed in 1990 by a partnership of leading businesses and
national organisations, IiP helps organisations to improve
performance and realise objectives through the management
and development of their staff. For further information, see
www.investorsinpeople.co.uk.
ISO (International Organization for Standardization)
The ISO is a network of national standards institutes from 146
countries working in partnership with international
organisations, governments, industry, business and consumer
representatives. The ISO is the source of ISO 9000 standards for
quality management, ISO 14000 standards for environmental
management and other international standards for business,
government and society. For further information, see
www.iso.org.
ISO 9001 (quality management)
The ISO 9000 standards cover an organisation’s practices in
fulfiling customers’ quality requirements and applicable
regulatory requirements while aiming to enhance customer
satisfaction and achieve continual improvement of its
performance in pursuit of these objectives.
ISO 14001 (environmental management)
The ISO 14001 standards are international standards for
controlling environmental aspects and improving
environmental performance, minimising harmful effects on the
environment and achieving continual improvements in
environmental performance.
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
KPIs are measurements that focus on achieving outcomes
critical to the current and future success of an organisation.
These indicators should deal with matters that are linked to the
organisation’s mission and vision, and are quantified and
influenced where possible.

PostNL Driving transition | Appendix 2: Data coverage table

Letterbox parcel
Postal item containing goods weighing up to 2 kg, which
generally fit through the slot of a letterbox.
Lost time accident
A lost time accident is an occupational accident resulting in the
absence of a PostNL employee for at least one working day. An
occupational accident is an unexpected and unplanned
occurrence, including acts of violence, arising out of or in
connection with work activities performed for PostNL. Each lost
time accident is only counted once and in the month it occurs.
Materiality
Information is material if errors, omissions or incorrect
presentation can influence the evaluation or decisions of users
of the information.
NOx
NOx (NO and NO2) refers to nitrogen oxides. Nitrogen oxides are
produced during combustion, especially at high temperatures.
Non-financial information
All information other than financial information is non-financial
information. This includes, but is broader than terms PostNL
used before, such as Corporate Responsibility (CR) Information.
Number of supervisory positions
According to Dutch law, the number of supervisory positions
that managing and Supervisory Board members may hold in
certain companies is limited (article 2:132a of the Dutch Civil
Code for managing board members and article 2:142a of the
Dutch Civil Code for Supervisory Board members). Since 1
January 2013 a person is prohibited from being appointed
member of the Supervisory Board of more than five so-called
large entities (including PostNL), whereby a chairman position
counts twice. Existing positions are exempt, but if they exceed
five, they must be reconsidered at the moment of
(re)appointment. Board members holding more than the
maximum number of positions on 1 January 2013 are not
obliged to resign from these positions, but positions must be
reconsidered at the time of reappointment.
OECD
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.
OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety management)
OHSAS 18001 is a standard for occupational health and safety
management systems. It is intended to help organisations
control occupational health and safety risks and was developed
in response to widespread demand for a recognised standard
for certification and assessment. OHSAS 18001 was created
through the collaboration of several of the world’s leading
national standards bodies, certification organisations and
consultancies. For further information, see
www.ohsas-18001-occupationalhealth-and-safety.com.

205

Omnichannel
An omnichannel organisation is one that focuses on the
customer, without being dependent on time, place and
channel. Customers experience a consistent experience across
all channels because the organisation provides relevant and
immediately available information and content.
Parcel
Goods to be transported by a distribution company, weighing
up to approximately 30 kg.
PM10
Particulates, alternatively referred to as particulate matter
(PM), such as fine particles and soot, are tiny subdivisions of
solid matter suspended in a gas or liquid. The notation PM10 is
used to describe particles of 10 micrometres or less.
PostNL N.V.
A public limited liability company incorporated under the laws
of the Netherlands, listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange,
with its statutory seat in The Hague, the Netherlands, and its
registered office at Prinses Beatrixlaan 23, 2595 AK The Hague,
the Netherlands, until 31 May 2011 named TNT N.V.
PostNL (Group)
PostNL N.V. and its Group companies.
Progress on transformation
When we talk about progress on transformation we means the
progress we make to become the logistics and postal service
provider in the Benelux. We monitor our progress by measuring
the share of Parcels revenues from contracts with customers
compared to the total revenue of PostNL.
Reputation score
Reputation is a perception about the degree of admiration,
positive feelings, esteem and trust an individual has for an
organisation. Reputation is rooted in an assessment of the
performance of an organisation over time, including in the past
and with expectations about the future. Our reputation score is
measured quarterly by the Reputation Institute, which
measures reputation across stakeholders, countries and
industries. It tracks 23 key performance indicators grouped
around seven core dimensions.

Serious accident
A serious accident is an occupational accident where a PostNL
employee is admitted to a hospital ward within 30 days after
the accident happened. An occupational accident is an
unexpected and unplanned occurrence, including acts of
violence, arising out of or in connection with work activities
performed for PostNL.
Processing and distribution centres
The sorting and delivery centres within our Parcels segment.
These centres operate automated sorting, and are all directly
connected by linehauls and serve as a starting point for
distribution rounds and returns handling.
TNT Express
The former public limited liability company which was
demerged from TNT N.V. on 31 May 2011 and until 25 May
2016 the ultimate parent company of the former express
activities of TNT N.V. On 25 May 2016 it was acquired by FedEx,
and subsequently delisted from the Amsterdam Stock
Exchange on 4 July 2016.
TNT N.V.
Until the demerger of TNT Express on 31 May 2011, TNT N.V.
was a public limited liability company incorporated under the
laws of the Netherlands, listed on the Amsterdam Stock
Exchange. Following the demerger on 31 May 2011, it was
renamed PostNL N.V.
USO
Universal Service Obligation. The designation as Universal
Service Provider obliges PostNL to collect and deliver domestic
mail and parcels five days a week (mourning cards and medical
post six days a week), and to provide for cross-border mail and
parcels according to the Universal Postal Union (UPU) rules.
Working hours
The total number of individually-calculated working hours
adjusted for overtime, leave or similar deviations.

Retail location
A retail location is a location where goods or services are sold
directly to consumers. In the context of PostNL for the Annual
Report, this includes retail shops, business points, parcel points
and post offices.

PostNL Driving transition | Appendix 2: Data coverage table

206

Appendix 4: GRI Content Index
GRI table
General disclosures
Indicatornr.

Indicator

Details/reference

102-1

Name of the organization

PostNL N.V.

102-2

Activities, brands, products, and services

Chaper 1: At a glance; Chapter 6: Customer value

102-3

Location of headquarters

Prinses Beatrixlaan 23, 2595 AK The Hague, the Netherlands

102-4

Location of operations

Chapter 4: Our operating context; Chapter 5: Value creation and strategy

102-5

Ownership and legal form

Chapter 17: PostNL on the capital markets

102-6

Markets served

Chapter 4: Our operating context; Chapter 5: Vlue creation and strategy;
Chapter 6: Customer value

102-7

Scale of the organization

Chapter 1: At a glance; Chapter 8; Social value; Chapter 10: Financial value;
Chapter 18: Financial statements; Chapter 19: Non-financial statements

102-8

Information on employees and other workers

Chapter 8: Social value; Chapter 19: Non-financial performance statements

102-9

Supply chain

Chapter 4: Our operating context; Chapter 5 Value creation and strategy;
Chapter 6: Customer value; Chapter 7: Operational value; Chapter 9:
Environmental value; Chapter 19: Non-financial performance statements.
PostNL's main suppliers are external delivery partners. Our supply chain is
mainly locally organised.

102-10

Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain

Chapter 5: Value creation and strategy: Our Strategy

102-11

Precautionary Principle or approach

Chapter 14: Risk management We have not formally adopted the
precautionary principle but we systematically assess and manage
environmental, safety, supply chain, operational, and other risks as described
throughout this report. We hold risk workshops throughout the year and have
an internal control framework in place to mitigate risks for financial as well as for
CR reporting.

102-12

External initiatives

Chapter 19: Non-financial performance statements: Reporting principles;
Guidelines and principles.

102-13

Membership of associations

We participate in several branche organisations: IPC, PostEurope, UPU.

102-14

Statement from senior decision-maker

Chapter 2: Message from Herna Verhagen

102-15

Key impacts, risks, and opportunities

Chapter 5: Value creation and strategy

102-16

Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior

Chapter 3: Our identity

102-17

Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics

Chapter 13 Corporate governance

102-18

Governance structure

Chapter 13: Corporate governance

102-19

Delegating authority

Chapter 13: Corporate governance

102-20

Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and
social topics

Chapter 13: Corporate governance

102-21

Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social
topics

Chapter 13: Corporate governance

102-22

Composition of the highest governance body and its committees

Chapter 13: Corporate governance

102-23

Chair of the highest governance body

PostNL does not have a unitary board structure.

102-24

Nominating and selecting the highest governance body

Chapter 13: Corporate governance

102-25

Conflicts of interest

Chapter 13: Corporate governance. No conflicts of interest occured.

102-26

Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and
strategy

Chapter 13: Corporate governance

102-27

Collective knowledge of highest governance body

Chapter 12: Report of the Supervisory Board

102-28

Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance

Chapter 13: Corporate governance

102-29

Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social
impacts

Chapter 12: Report of the Supervisory Board

102-30

Effectiveness of risk management processes

Chapter 13: Corporate governance

102-31

Review of economic, environmental, and social topics

Chapter 13: Corporate governance

102-32

Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting

Chapter 13: Corporate governance

102-33

Communicating critical concerns

Chapter 13: Corporate governance

102-34

Nature and total number of critical concerns

There were no critical concerns in 2018

102-35

Remuneration policies

Chapter 15: Remuneration report

102-36

Process for determining remuneration

Chapter 13: Corporate governance

Organisational profile

Strategy

Ethics and integrity

Governance

PostNL Driving transition | Appendix 4: GRI Content Index

207

GRI table
General disclosures
Indicatornr.
Indicator
Governance (continued)

102-38

102-39

Details/reference

Annual total compensation ratio

Chapter 15: Remuneration report We report on the ratio of the annual total compenstaion
for the organisation's highest-paid individual compared to the average annual total
compensation for all employees. This reporting is in line with the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code. As such we do not report on a ratio based on the median of the annual
total compensation for all employees.

Percentage increase in annual total compensation
ratio

Chapter 15: Remuneration report We report on the ratio of the annual total compenstaion
for the organisation's highest-paid individual compared to the average annual total
compensation for all employees. This reporting is in line with the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code. As such we do not report on a ratio based on the median of the annual
total compensation for all employees.

Stakeholder Engagement
102-40

List of stakeholder groups

Chapter 4: Our operating context; Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, Section 1: Basis of
preparation.

102-41

Collective bargaining agreements

Chapter 4: Our operating context; Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, Section 1: Basis of
preparation.

102-42

Identifying and selecting stakeholders

Chapter 4: Our operating context; Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, Section 1: Basis of
preparation.

102-43

Approach to stakeholder engagement

Chapter 4: Our operating context; Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, Section 1: Basis of
preparation.

102-44

Key topics and concerns raised

Chapter 4: Our operating context; Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, Section 1: Basis of
preparation.

102-45

Entities included in the consolidated financial
statements

Chapter Financial performance. A complete list of investments in subsidiaries, associated
companies and jointly-controlled entities will be attached to the company’s annual report
made available to the Chamber of Commerce.

102-46

Defining report content and topic Boundaries

Chapter 19 Non-financial statements: 1.2 Reporting criteria

102-47

List of material topics

Chapter 4: Our operating context

102-48

Restatements of information

Chapter 19: Non-financial performance statements: Note 1.3 Safeguarding report quality

102-49

Changes in reporting

Chapter 4: Our operating context: Materiality; Chapter 19 Non-financial statements: Note
1.2 Reporting criteria

102-50

Reporting period

Full calendar year 2018

102-51

Date of most recent report

26 February 2018

102-52

Reporting cycle

Annual

102-53

Contact point for questions regarding the report

Please send us your comments by e-mail to corporatecommunications@postnl.nl or by
sending a letter to PostNL Annual Report team: P.O. Box 30250, 2500 GG The Hague, The
Netherlands

102-54

Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI
Standards

The scope of the report is part of the Assurance report of the independent auditor

102-55

GRI content index

102-56

External assurance

Chapter 19 Non-financial statements: Note 1.3 Safeguarding report quality

102-37

Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration

Chapter 15: Remuneration report The views on stakeholders are sought indrectly through
the stakeholder dialogues we have held.

Reporting practice

PostNL Driving transition | Appendix 4: GRI Content Index

208

GRI table
Topic specific disclosures
GRI Standard

Name of standard

Reference, explanation, omission

103-1

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

Chapter 6: Customer value Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 1.2 Reporting
Criteria, paragraph: Description of reporting foundations

103-2

The management approach and its components

Chapter 6: Customer value

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

Chapter 6: Customer value Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 1.3
Safeguarding report quality

PNL-1 Key

Highly satisfied customers

Chapter 6: Customer value Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 2: Customer
value performance indicators

Key material topics
Customer experience

Manage growth in e-commerce

103-1

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

Chapter 6: Customer value Chapter 7: Operational value Chapter 19: Non-financial
statements, section 1.2 Reporting Criteria, paragraph: Description of reporting
foundations

103-2

The management approach and its components

Chapter 6: Customer value Chapter 7: Operational value

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

Chapter 6: Customer value Chapter 7: Operational value Chapter 19: Non-financial
statements, section 1.3 Safeguarding report quality

PNL-2 Key

Progress on transformation (share of e-commerce
revenue)

Chapter 6: Customer value Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 2: Customer
value performance indicators

PNL-3 Key

Volume development Parcels

Chapter 6: Customer value Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 3: Operational
value performance indicators

Manage declining mail volumes

103-1

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

Chapter 7: Operational value Chapter 10: Financial value Chapter 19: Non-financial
statements, section 1.2 Reporting Criteria, paragraph: Description of reporting
foundations

103-2

The management approach and its components

Chapter 7: Operational value Chapter 10: Financial value

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

Chapter 7: Operational value Chapter 10: Financial value Chapter 19: Non-financial
statements, section 1.3 Safeguarding report quality

PNL-4 Key

Volume development Mail

Chapter 6: Customer value Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 3: Operational
value performance indicators

PNL-5 Key

Cost savings

Chapter 10: Financial value

103-1

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

Chapter 8: Social value Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 1.2 Reporting
Criteria, paragraph: Description of reporting foundations

103-2

The management approach and its components

Chapter 8: social value

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

Chapter 8: Social value Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 1.3 Safeguarding
report quality

PNL-6 Key

Employee engagement

Chapter 8: Social value Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 4: Social value
performance indicators

PNL-7 Key

Employee loyalty

Chapter 8: Social value Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 4: Social value
performance indicators

401-1

New employee hires and employee turnover

Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 4: Social value performance indicators

403-2

Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases,
lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related
fatalities

Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 4: Social value performance indicators
"Occupational diseases" and "Lost days" are not applicable for PostNL as this does ot
provide useful management information about Health and Safety at PostNL.
Information about "Absenteeism" and working days (needed to "Lost time accidents" of
workers beyond our own employees is unavailable for PostNL, we only report these
indicators for our own employees.

404-1

Average hours of training per year per employee

Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 4: Social value performance indicators

405-1

Diversity of governance bodies and employees

Chapter 13: Corporate governance, section: Diversity Chapter 19: Non-financial
statements, section 4: Social value performance indicators

Empowered people

Accessible and reliable postal services
103-1

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

Chapter 6: Customer value Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 1.2 Reporting
Criteria, paragraph: Description of reporting foundations

103-2

The management approach and its components

Chapter 6: Customer value

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

Chapter 6: Customer value Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 1.3
Safeguarding report quality

PNL-8 Key

Delivery quality Mail in the Netherlands

Chapter 6: Customer value Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 2: Customer
value performance indicators

PostNL Driving transition | Appendix 4: GRI Content Index

209

GRI table
Topic specific disclosures
GRI Standard

Name of standard

Reference, explanation, omission

Key material topics
Financial position and performance
103-1

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

Chapter 10: Financial value Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 1.2
Reporting Criteria, paragraph: Description of reporting foundations

103-2

The management approach and its components

Chapter 10: Financial value

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

Chapter 10: Financial value Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 1.3
Safeguarding report quality

PNL-9 Key

Revenue

Chapter 10: Financial value

PNL-10 Key

Underlying operating income

Chapter 10: Financial value

PNL-11 Key

Underlying cash operating income

Chapter 10: Financial value

201-1

Direct economic value generated and distributed

Chapter 18: Financial statements, section: Consolidated primary statements

201-2

Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to
climate change

Chapter 14: Risk management, table: Regulatory risks

201-3

Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans

Chapter 18: Financial statements, section: Provision for pension liabilities

103-1

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

Chapter 9: Environmental value Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 1.2
Reporting Criteria, paragraph: Description of reporting foundations

103-2

The management approach and its components

Chapter 9: Environmental value

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

Chapter 9: Environmental value Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 1.3
Safeguarding report quality

PNL-12 Key

CO2 efficiency index

Chapter 9: Environmental value Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 4:
Environmental value performance indicators

305-1

Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions

Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 4: Environmental value
performance indicators

305-2

Energy indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions

Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 4: Environmental value
performance indicators

305-3

Other indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions

Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 4: Environmental value
performance indicators

305-4

GHG emissions intensity

Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 4: Environmental value
performance indicators

305-7

Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other
significant air emissions

Chapter 19: Non-financial statements, section 4: Environmental value
performance indicators

Emission free delivery

PostNL Driving transition | Appendix 4: GRI Content Index

210

Appendix 5: UN Global Compact reference table
PostNL
Global compact principles
UN Global Compact principle

Reference

1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights

Chapter 8: Social value, paragraph: Human rights

2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses

Chapter 8: Social value, paragraph: Human rights

3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective
bargaining

Chapter 8: Social value, paragraph: Human rights Chapter 8: Social value,
paragraph: Collective labour agreements

4. Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour

Chapter 8: Social value, paragraph: Human rights

5. Uphold the effective abolition of child labour

Chapter 8: Social value, paragraph: Human rights

6. Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation

Chapter 8: Social value, paragraph: Human rights

7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges

Chapter 9: Environmental value (e.g. city logistics)

8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility

Chapter 9: Environmental value Chapter 19: Non-financial statements,
Section 5: Environmental value performance indicators

9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies

Chapter 9: Environmental value

10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery

Chapter 14: Risk management, paragraph: Integrity

PostNL Driving transition | Appendix 5: UN Global Compact reference table

211

Appendix 6: Summary of key figures
All numbers presented in this appendix are the reported numbers in the respective Annual Reports of 2014 till 2018, unless restated
in a later year. Revenues and underlying cash operating income have represented for all earlier years for adjusted segment
reporting, the impact of the discontinued operations in Italy and Germany and the management buy-out of Whistl in 2015.
PostNL
Key figures
2014-2018, in € millions, unless indicated otherwise
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Parcels

1,057

1,173

1,283

1,382

1,555

Mail in the Netherlands

2,044

1,961

1,877

1,783

1,678

PostNL

2,765

2,751

2,723

2,725

2,772

Parcels

109

123

131

140

117

Mail in the Netherlands

230

204

160

125

93

PostNL Other

(45)

(22)

(37)

(24)

(22)

PostNL

294

305

254

241

188

Parcels

10.3%

10.5%

10.2%

10.1%

7.5%

Mail in the Netherlands

11.3%

10.4%

8.5%

7.0%

5.5%

PostNL

10.6%

11.1%

9.3%

8.8%

6.8%

141

135

10

11

(19)

Net cash / (net debt)

(683)

(552)

86

27

(149)

Consolidated equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent

(597)

(213)

(79)

34

46

Corporate equity

1,983

2,204

2,742

2,730

2,593

Month-end coverage ratio main pension fund

108.9%

106.0%

108.3%

115.8%

112.1%

12-months average coverage ratio main pension fund

111.8%

106.8%

103.6%

113.4%

116.0%

168

179

164

151

148

Financial performance
Revenue

Underlying cash operating income

Underlying cash operating income margin

Net cash from operating & investing activities (excluding TNT Express)

Cash out from pensions
Profit for the year (excluding TNT Express)

220

147

135

148

33

Earnings per share (excluding TNT Express in € cents)

49.9

33.3

30.5

33.0

7.1

Operational performance
Parcels
Parcel volume (in millions of items)
Volume growth percentage

142

156

177

207

251

8.4%

9.6%

13.3%

17.2%

21.5%

Mail in the Netherlands
Addressed mail volume (in millions of items)
Volume decline percentage
Delivery quality (2018 preliminary)
Cost savings

2,705

2,401

2,213

1,994

1,781

(10.7%)

(11.2%)

(7.9%)

(9.9%)

(10.7%)

97%

96%

96%

95%

95%

127

85

64

56

48

30%

Corporate responsibility performance
Customer satisfaction (% of highly satisfied customers)

not reported

not reported

38%

41%

Employee engagement (% of engaged employees)

60%

64%

68%

67%

65%

Absenteeism (% of total working hours)

5.3%

5.0%

5.0%

5.2%

5.9%

CO2 efficiency index (2007 = 100)

53.5

50.4

45.7

40.2

38.6

PostNL Driving transition | Appendix 6: Summary of key figures

212

PostNL Driving transition | Appendix 6: Summary of key figures

213

PostNL Driving transition | Appendix 6: Summary of key figures

214

